By Stellamaris Ashinze Google has announced  three new initiatives aimed at empowering women entrepreneurs in Africa and providing them with the resources to succeed. Mr Folarin Aiayegbusi, Head of Startup Ecosystem, Africa, said that the initiative was the organisation’s way to celebrate 2023 International Women’s Day. Aiayegbusi said in a statement  that the initiatives included the Google for Startups Accelerator Africa, Women Founders Cohort, and the Hustle Academy for Women-Led Small and Media Enterprises, a social media series celebrating inspiring women in Africa’s technology sector. “We are thrilled to announce the selected startups for the inaugural class of our Google for Startups Accelerator Africa: Women Founders Cohort. ‘’These women are tackling some of Africa’s most pressing challenges, and we are excited to support them as they build the future. “The 15 startups selected for the programme are from eight African countries and are creating innovative solutions that improve livelihoods in their communities,’’ he said. According to him, Google’s Hustle Academy is a bootcamp-style training programme designed to help entrepreneurs increase revenue, position themselves for investment, and build sustainable businesses for the future. He said that  as part of its International Women’s Day celebration, Google planned to host six women-focused cohorts of the Hustle Academy programme in Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa in the month of March. Aiyegbusi  said that Women entrepreneurs in these countries were invited to apply to join these cohorts at g.co/hustleacademy. According to him, Google is celebrating inspiring women in Africa’s technology sector through its #WomeninIT social media series. He said that the series would  feature the stories of six inspiring women breaking barriers and making impacts in the fields of technology, business, entrepreneurship, innovation and startups on the continent. Dorothy Ooko, Head of Communications, Google, Africa, said that Google was committed to providing women entrepreneurs in Africa with access to funding, mentorship, and networking opportunities. Ooko said that the Google programmes aimed to bridge  gaps and empower women to succeed in their respective fields. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) Edited by Kevin Okunzuwa/Ijeoma Popoola