By Yusuf Yunus Hamilton and George, a Lagos based financial advisory firm, says it has started a Private Placement exercise for Quantum Partners, the parent entity, for an emerging innovative fintech platform for African entrepreneurs. The company is building Africa’s first green and sustainable fintech, deploying its expertise in digital technology and green finance to transform Africa’s business and startup ecosystem. The Private Placement is part of Quantum Partners’ efforts to raise additional capital to support its growth and expansion plans. The funds raised will be used to accelerate the development of the company’s technology platform, expand its product offerings and deepen its reach in key markets across Africa. “We are thrilled to be working with Quantum Partners on this exciting Private Placement exercise,” Mr Joseph Edgar, the Chief Executive Officer of Hamilton and George, said in a statement on Tuesday in Lagos. “As a specialised financial advisory firm, we are committed to providing our clients with the highest level of service and support. “With our expertise in the Nigerian market and our deep network of partners and investors, we are confident that we will be able to help Quantum Partners achieve its fundraising goals,” he added. In a joint statement issued to mark the commencement of the exercise, Adedipe Oluwafemi and Samuel Ndubuisi-Brown, co-founders of Quantum Partners said, “we are excited to launch this Private Placement exercise which represents a significant milestone in our journey to empower African entrepreneurs and startups through innovative digital finance solutions. “With the support of Hamilton and George, we are confident that we will be able to attract the right investors, who share our vision and are committed to driving positive change in Africa’s business ecosystem.” The Private Placement exercise is open to accredited investors who are interested in participating in the growth and success of Quantum Partners, as it seeks to build a category defining fintech firm in Africa. The statement advised interested investors to contact Hamilton and George for more details, adding that Cordros Trustees Ltd., a trustee firm, would lend credibility to the capital raise exercise. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Hamilton and George Advisers is a boutique financial advisory firm based in Lagos, Nigeria. The firm is a specialised financial advisory firm that focuses on providing personalised services to a specific niche, and provides a range of services to its clients, including corporate finance, advisory and proprietary investment. It is focused on deploying a team of  professionals and a deep network of partners and investors toward helping Nigerian and African businesses to achieve their full potential. Cordros Trustees, on its part, offers a wide range of trustee services, including corporate, public, and private trust services. The firm has an experienced team of professionals with expertise in various areas of trust management such as estate planning, fund management and corporate restructuring. They provide customised solutions that align with the unique needs of each client, ensuring the best possible outcomes. The firm adheres to regulatory standards set by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) to ensure the safety and security of its clients’ assets. The statement said that Quantum Partners Investment Service Ltd. focuses on building Africa’s next-generation fintech platform with special attention to empowering African entrepreneurs and the businesses they run. “The company recognises that the traditional financial system may not be equipped to address the changing trend and unique needs of today’s African businesses and startups, especially since most financial systems were designed for a different time and age. “The company believes the world is changing and so must the financial services engine that powers it,” the statement added.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) Edited by Olawunmi Ashafa