By Naomi Sharang The Kogi Central Senator-elect, Abubakar Sadiku-Ohere, of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has assured the people of his constituency of quality representation. Sadiku-Ohere  gave the assurance while speaking with newsmen in Abuja on Thursday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Sadiku-Ohere was one of the 98 senators-elect who were presented with their certificates of return by the Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. Ohere said that he would focus on bills and motions that would be of direct benefit to the constituents. “We campaigned on our manifesto from 2016 till date and we have never deviated. “Our mantra is to perform creditably well. With this next level, we are going to do more in terms of legislation that will help our people especially to improve the welfare of our people. “I will give top priority to agriculture and also ensure that I come up with motions that would see to the revival of Ajaokuta Steel Company,”he said. He also expressed gratitude to the people of Kogi central for the support pledging that he would not fail them. “I’m honoured by the support and I appreciate our party, the All Progressive Congress (APC). I’m indeed overwhelmed,” he said. He added: “I’m going to do better and I promise that they will see a change in representation.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Sadiku-Ohere of the APC was on Feb. 25, declared winner of the National Assembly election for Kogi Central Senatorial district. Sadiku-Ohere defeated Mrs Natasha Akpoti-Uduaghan, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to emerge winner of the keenly contested election. He garnered 52,132 votes against Natasha’s 51,763 votes to clinch the seat, a difference of 369 votes between them. A biography of Sadiku-Ohere shows that in 2016, he paused his civil service career to serve Kogi State Government under Gov. Yahaya Bello from Jan. 2016 to August 2019. He served as a Special Adviser overseeing the affairs of the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs. In 2019, he was appointed Commissioner, Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs. While in Jan. 2020, Sadiku-Ohere was appointed again as Commissioner for Works and Housing, a position he voluntarily resigned from on April 16, 2022. This was in pursuant of the aspirations and desire of the people to contest as senator representing Kogi Central Senatorial District in the Federal Legislature. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Ifeyinwa Okonkwo/Sadiya Hamza