By Cecilia Ologunagba  The Society of Foreign Consuls  (SOFC), New York, has honoured a Nigerian nurse, Dr Grace Ogiehor-Enoma, for her outstanding achievements and contributions to community empowerment of African immigrants in the U.S. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ogiehor-Enoma was honoured at the 2023 International Women Day celebration hosted by the Consulate General of India in New York. The event was part of the activities to mark the 2023 International Women’s Day and International Women’s Month in New York. The event co-hosted with the Consulate General of Nigeria in New York, had 15 participating Consulates General. Fifteen  awardees from those Consulates were honoured. The participating Consulates are Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, El Salvador, Guyana, India, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Peru, Serbia and Turkey. In his remarks, Consul General of India in New York, Amb. Randhir Jaiswal, spoke about the importance of celebrating the achievements of women. According to him, the Consulate has celebrated the Women’s Day on March 8, noting that celebrating the Day in an international environment with representatives from people all over the world is “truly a special day”. He said that women had been contributing greatly to the growth and development of India from art to culture, and from entertainment to aviation sector. “All our folk traditions, all our songs, classic music and dances, performing art, have been passed from one generation to the other through women. “India today is the 5th largest economy, very soon, it will be the 3rd largest economy in the world. “So, if the country has to climb this ladder, she needs to bring more women to every sector of the economy,’’ he said.   Similarly, New York City’s Commissioner for International Affairs, Edward Mermelstein, urged countries to include more women in every sector of their economy. “Let this event be a call for action to work for a more just and equitable world for women. “Also, we must work together to have a world where women will be free from violence, a world to promote gender equality and women empowerment,’’ he said. In her remarks, the President of SOFC in New York, Amb. Marita Landaveri, congratulated the awardees, saying that they were extra ordinary women representing former ministers, activists, teachers and people that had helped others. “All of you in one way or the other have helped others. Your Consuls General have chosen you as women doing extra ordinary things in your communities.’’ Landaveri, who is the Consul General of Peru in New York, said that 15 ladies, representing their different countries and the world, had been chosen for 2023 International Women Day celebration awards. “You have been chosen because you do special things. All of you here were honoured today by SOFC in New York because of your contribution and commitment throughout the many immigrant communities in the city,’’ she said.   NAN reports that Ogiehor-Enoma holds monthly health outreach in Nigeria House, conducting free health screening for Nigerians coming to the mission. Ogiehor-Enoma, an associate Professor at Hunter-Believue School of Nursing, is a founder of the Nigerian Nurses Association of USA (NNAUSA) and is also a community health activist. Founded in April 2002, NNAUSA is aimed at bringing Nigerian nurses for community health outreach, health education and to help eliminate health disparities amongst African immigrant communities. It provides free health services including community outreach, health screening and referrals, cancer referrals, prescription drug programme,  family health counselling as well as an annual nutrition and clothing drive. Under her leadership as Executive Director and now Chair, National Association of Nigerian in North America (NANNA), NNAUSA has expanded to several states in the United States and Canada, giving rise to the National Association in North America.  (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)