By Abdul Hassan The Arewa Community in Southern Nigerian, has endorsed Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos state for a second term in office, following his numerous achievements. Alhaji Musa Saidu, the Chairman, Arewa Initiative for Peaceful Coexistence in Southern Nigeria, stated this when he spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria on Wednesday in Abuja. Saidu said that the community had also endorsed Chief Dumo Lulu, the Rivers governorship candidate of the Accord Party as its preferred candidate for the March 11 poll. He said the decision was taken at the community’s emergency meeting in Port Harcourt. Saidu, also a chieftain of Arewa Consultative Forum, added that the endorsement of Sanwo-Olu was based on his style of leadership, which ensured peaceful coexistence among different ethnic groups in the state. “ Sanwo-Olu has been a friend to all Nigerians residents in Lagos State, he has also demonstrated great love to our people from the North and he has assisted some of them in their growing their businesses in Lagos. “He is indeed a great friend of our people, we enjoin all people from the North residents in Lagos to come out and to vote for him on Saturday,’’ he said. The chairman described Sanwo-Olu’s administration as replica of Sen. Bola Tunubu’s administration in terms of focus and human capital development. “The numerous socio- economic and political challenges facing Nigeria require people with focus and ideas to steer the affairs of the country,” he said. “ It is an obvious fact that Sanwo -Olu has these qualities and we are convinced the he will double his achievements in office if he secures a second term, ” Saidu said. He said the decided to endorsed Lulu, of Accord Party following his track record and his etiquette with Northern people residents in Rivers State. “ We know him very well and we are aware of his love for the people of the state and Nigeria. “ He respect our elders and businessmen, he is against Gov. Nyisom Wike’s hostility against our people, as such we endorsed him as our preferred candidate,’’ Saidu said.(NAN) Edited by Ali Baba-Inuwa