By Deji Abdulwahab The Amalgamated All Progressives Congress (AAPC) Support Groups has called on political parties to embrace the hands of fellowship and brotherhood extended to them by Sen. Bola Tinubu, the nation’s President-elect. The Director-General of the group, Dr Kailani Muhammad, made the call on Tuesday at a meeting with the Leadership of APC Grassroots Independent Campaign Council in Abuja. Muhammad urged them, as patriotic Nigerians, to join Tinubu in nation-building so as to move the country forward. “We are calling on the opposition parties, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Labour Party and their members to accept the hands of fellowship and brotherhood extended to them by our principal, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “We saw PDP leaders and their members yesterday parading themselves on the streets of Abuja, belittling themselves after they have gone to court to challenge the election of the president-elect. “They have already gone to court and it has given them a note that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should give them the result sheets, which INEC is ready to do. “We are happy domestically here in Nigeria that all and sundry supported the Feb. 25 presidential election where Tinubu and Shettima emerged as winners. “They should know that it is not selection, but an election and that is why international community has also confirmed that the election was free and fair,’’ he said. The director-general said that various groups on the platform had been deployed to 28 states to ensure victory during the March 11 Governorship and state House of Assembly elections. “We have also set up committees to go round 28 states as we did in the last Presidential and National Assembly elections. “We deployed them to man all the 146,000 polling units in Nigeria,’’ he said. In his remarks, Mr Silas Agara, the National Coordinator, APC Grassroots Independent Campaign Council, said that purpose of the meeting was to unite various APC support groups. According to him, the meeting is to promote unity, cohesion, mutual understanding, among the APC Support Groups. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ================= Edited by Olagoke Olatoye