By Perpetua Onuegbu The Digital Rights and Information Partnership (DRIP) and Paradigm Initiative, have urged the Federal Government to embrace electoral transparency and  safeguard digital rights of citizens. The groups gave the charge on Friday in Abuja at a news conference organised to educate media practitioners and the public on the importance of safeguarding digital rights and improving transparency in electoral processes. DRIP’s Spokesperson, Mr Edozie Chukwuma, said the sensitisation became imperative because of the several shortcomings that trailed the Presidential and National Assembly elections. According to him, the Feb.25 elections fell short of international transparency standards due to the INEC’s  inability to effectively and efficiently leverage digital technology. “Leveraging digital media and the internet have its unique challenges due to our dynamic political landscape which was evident in the just concluded elections. “The commission invested heavily in technology (such as the BVAS and IREV systems) to ensure transparency and direct transmission of electoral results from polling units. “However, polling results were transmitted manually due to reports of external interference and connectivity challenges faced which highlight the issues of citizens’ data protection, internet governance and unlawful shutdowns. “Nigerians deserve protection against unlawful shutdowns and interferences as seen during the presidential elections which has decreased citizens’ trust in the commission’s capacity to ensure transparency and credibility,” Chukwuma said. According to him, Nigerians should be given enabling environment to vote with assurance that their votes will count with no fear of the use of suppressive force that  hinders civic participation. He said the use of the internet, social media and mass media could be advantageous in holding governments and agencies accountable in seeking redress for violence and misconduct against human and digital rights. ” In view of the Digital Rights and Freedom Bill (DRFB) at the National Assembly, it is important to emphasise that the legislation seeks to address these issues. “It aims at prohibiting undue interference with digital privacy of any Nigerian citizen. “Protects the rights to peaceful assembly and association online of all Nigerians through social networks and platforms. “Ensure access to the internet and electronic media or communication of all people without being subject to discrimination or censorship. “Protects right to opinion and expression online without any restriction “Secures the privacy of all online learners including students and empowers education and innovation by protecting information and communication technology,” He further said that the Bill if passed would  ensure that government recognised the power of social media as a democratic advantage to reinforce democratic processes, drive efficiency, foster innovation, empower public sector workers and expose corruption. Chukwuma, therefore, called on government to  safeguard the civic space by curtailing unlawful shutdowns, and guarantee freedom of expression and assembly online of all Nigerians. He added that it was the civic responsibility of electoral agencies and the government to ensure the digital rights of Nigerians were  not infringed upon during and the gubernatorial elections. “We call for the protection of digital rights and online freedom as it is of democratic importance to ensure accountability and good governance from our government at all levels. “We are also using this medium to call on Nigerians not to give up because of the unsatisfactory results of the presidential elections. “But they should go out enmasse and exercise their franchise because if they don’t, undemocratic elements will capitalise on it and  utterly have their way.”(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) Edited by Kevin Okunzuwa/Isaac Aregbesola