By Angela Atabo The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday urged the electorate in Nasarawa to vote for its gubernatorial candidate, David Ombugadu, for sustainable healthcare and infrastructure development. Mrs Louise Gyunka, Chief Coordinator of the PDP rally in Karu Local Government Area of the state made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on the sidelines of the event. She said the PDP candidate had proven that he could build infrastructure and empower residents with myriad of antecedents of projects he implemented in the state. According to her, the PDP is a youth that understands the plight of his peers and always works to ameliorate their suffering through the viable projects he initiated. Gyunka said: “I know he is a young man, a youth full of energy and technological ideas, he has already started building medical facilities even before becoming a governor. ”There are some in Akwanga, Awe and Wamba and that has been a  source of help to the people at the grassroots. “Now, people living in these areas and environs do not have to go far to access health facilities and it had reduced the rate of deaths to some extent. “Ombugado is a man that has a great vision, he had provided clean water for people which is one of the basic amenities humans need. “He has shown a lot of strength, he is willing and he has the heart to change Nasarawa Dtate”. The Coordinator said that if elected, the PDP administration would transform healthcare facilities, especially maternal care to stem maternal mortality and morbidity in the state. She said that the PDP candidate had more top-notch health visions that he would implement if elected as the governor of the state.  She urged youth and women to come out en masse to vote for the governorship and other candidates of the party for a new Nasarawa State. “So, I will advise all of them to come out on Saturday, March 18 to vote for PDP and  Ombugadu to make sure he gets into the White House for our dream of a new Narasarawa State to come true.’’ (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) Edited by Bashir Rabe Mani