By Salisu Sani-Idris Arewa Development Support Initiative (ADSI), has urged the President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu to ensure youth and women empowerment, as well as girl-child education, especially in the northern part of the country. In a congratulatory letter signed on Wednesday in Abuja, the President of the initiative, Khuraira Musa, aligned with the vision of the President-elect in the actualisation of economic empowerment, skills acquisition, capacity building and inclusiveness for nation-building. According to her, ADSI desires to partner with the incoming administration in the actualisation of a grassroots campaign manifesto in these areas which are part of its activities over the years. Musa said: “We the board and members of Arewa Development Support Initiative (ADSI) extend warm congratulations to you as the President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “You demonstrated resilience in running a hard-fought campaign by symbolising hope, unity, patriotism and economic success. “But importantly, ADSI is excited to read about your  trademark of fast-track development, excellence and filling the best person for the job which hallmark is required to addressing the many challenges our country is facing.” She said the initiative was aware of how Tinubu impressed Lagosians with a clear vision and ability to get the job done against the most formidable opposition. Musa added: “As you get on with the business of government as President- elect, ADSI desires to be your worthy partner in the actualisation of some of your grassroots campaign manifesto to our northern brothers and sisters. “Which largely was on economic empowerment, skills acquisition, capacity building and inclusiveness for nation-building which are at the heart of ADSI objectives. ” ADSI trusts that you will continue to work for improved youth programs, gender equality especially in the northern part of Nigeria as well as women, girl-child education and most importantly, having more women in your cabinet.” She said that the initiative was a developmental, capacity building and SDG advocacy organisation with an impressive presence in all 19 states of the North and FCT. Musa said: “Our large membership comprises personalities of all vocations from all walks of life mainly of northern extraction of all faiths. “We wish you much success in your demanding office, good fortunes and firm health, as well as to the entire members of your family.” (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) Edited by Bashir Rabe Mani