By Salisu Sani-Idris  The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Thursday in Abuja distributed assorted gadgets to security agencies operating within the territory. The gesture is aimed at strengthening the fight against lawlessness in the FCT. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the gadgets, including bullet proof jackets, hand grenades, helmet and other sensitive security equipment, were said to be complementary to the initial brand new vehicles that were earlier distributed to them some months ago by the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello. FCTA’s Permanent Secretary, Mr Adesola Olusade, who performed the symbolic distribution, said the administration value the sacrifices of the security agencies and would continue to reward them for unalloyed diligence and loyalty. Olusade noted that FCTA believed that a well motivated and equipped personnel would add the much needed value to effective policing of a cosmopolitan city like Abuja. According to him, officers and men who put their lives in line for the protection of lives and property of others ought to be well kitted. “They need to be protected, so we have to support their efforts by providing them with necessary safety gadgets. “We are complementing whatever the Federal Government has done, and we hope it will go a long way to boost their courage and gallantry to fight crimes and criminalities,” Olusade added. Also, the FCT Commissioner of Police Command, Mr Sadiq Abubakar, while assuring that the gadgets will be deployed appropriately, warned miscreants and all criminals to stay away from Abuja because operatives would surely come after them. “I want to assure you that we will remain committed and it will boost whatever we have been doing. It will also encourage us to put in our best in promoting the peace and stability of the FCT. “We warn hoodlums and miscreants to stay away from crimes and criminalities, otherwise we will come after them,” he said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Muhammad Suleiman Tola