Some of the items donated to households by Al-Habibiyyah Islamic Society on Saturday in Abuja By Bridget Ikyado The Al-Habibiyyah Islamic Society (AIS) on Saturday distributed N13 million worth of household items and business startups to 160 recipients in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the recipients included 150 Muslims and 10 Christians. Speaking at the event held at the Al-Habibiyyah Jumat Mosque, Guzape, Abuja, the Chief Imam of AIS, Sheik Fuad Adeyemi, said the event was the 2nd National Zakat Day and 12th public disbursement of zakat to the needy. NAN reports that zakat (compulsory charity/alms for the needy) is the last of the five compulsory pillars of Islam, for those that meet the designated threshold in cash and other forms of wealth in a one full lunar calendar year. “The N13 million will be disbursed today inform of cheques for educational support and business startups,” Adeyemi said. He said the items included deep freezers, sewing machines, grinding startup machines, fridges and barbing salon kits, amongst others. According to him, this year’s programme was carefully established to sensitise everyone on the current issues and challenges on the payment and disbursement of zakat. “It is a known fact that if all eligible Muslims pay their zakat (tithes), no Moslem would be poor, hence the theme of the event, “Practice to prosperity”, he said. The renowned Muslim cleric said the society was working toward tackling three major challenges encountered by the Muslim ummah, which are ignorance, poverty and relationship. Adeyemi said: “All our progmames are tailored toward solving the three identified problems. “Zakat and endowment foundation, Do something Initiative, Ramadan Food Bank, Al-Habibiyyah Cooperative and many more programmes coming are targeted toward solving the problem of poverty. “The mosque, Abrahamic mission, toward solving the problem of relationship, while the executive Quranic course are geared towards solving the problem of ignorance.” The Imam also said the second Saturday of Sha’aban for National Zakat day was chosen because of its closeness to the month of Ramadan and the lecture will come up on March 26. “The Ramadan food bank will start on the first day of Ramadan and intends to feed 2,500 people daily and this calls for support,” he said. Also, the Chairman of the event and former Permanent Secretary, State House, Alhaji Jalal Arabi, sued for unity and peace for national development. He said the religious organisation was the first to show and preach peace for a better nation. Speaking on the theme of the event, the Chairman, Sokoto State Zakat and Waqf Commission, Alhaji Muhammed Maidoki, said the fastest way to gain wealth and win Allah’s favour was through feeding the hungry and giving to charity. Alhaji Maidoki urged believers to always ensure they contributed their zakat, which was also a means of promoting unity, love and growing society. He said that the benefits of Zakat contributes to increasing the income of the poor and improving their condition of life. “If zakat is collected and distributed in accordance with the law, it will result in the accumulative process of consumption and investment. “It will also guarantee not only the eradication of poverty by creating permanent employment but feed the economic growth in order to reach a high stage of economic and social development,” Maidoki said. He also said that the lack of awareness, financial literacy, poor mechanism for zakat distribution, absence of legal backing and political will were militating against the process of fair zakat distribution. He suggested intensive awareness, employing good mechanism of zakat distribution, enacting strong legal framework and encouraging political support from emirs, among others, would enhance the process for societal and citizens well-being. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) BTT/USO Edited by Sam Oditah