By Ephraims Sheyin The Lagos State Government and GetBundi Education Technology Company have inaugurated a Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) laboratory at Wesley Girls Senior Secondary School, Yaba, Lagos. The STEM laboratory is the pilot phase of an ongoing partnership between the Lagos State Government and GetBundi that would see the deployment of GetBundi’s education technology platform across schools in the state. Speaking at the ceremony on Thursday, Dr Adetola Salau, Special Assistant on Education to the Governor of Lagos State, emphasised the importance of STEM education, saying it would prepare students for emerging challenges. “STEM will prepare students to constitute an effective workforce; it will equip them with the skills needed to excel in a rapidly-changing, technology-driven society,” she said. She explained that what the Getbundi was offering was in tandem with the Science Technology Engineering Arts and Math (STEAM UP) Lagos project which she oversees. According to her, the goal is to infuse the ideals of a globally unified STEAM curriculum, making learning fun, accessible, sustainable, relatable to learners, while inculcating critical thinking ability, problem identification and solving skills. It also encourages collaboration and creativity in designing solutions to identified challenges in society, she added. She said that by virtue of the partnership, GetBundi would help to “provide students with real-world experience and help them to develop the skills that are in demand in the job market. According to her, that goal will be better achieved with the donation of a STEAM laboratory equipped with the latest equipment and software. “They (Getbundi) supported our district here – Educational District IV, specifically Wesley Girls Secondary School – through this generous support which aligns with our goals that ultimately focus on the provision of quality education for all of the state’s children. “This encourages educational innovation that aims to improve learning outcomes. “We are also glad that this laboratory will be at a girls’ secondary school because we are focused on inspiring girls to pursue STEM courses and careers – by providing access to STEM resources directly at their school. “That is expected to lead to the setting up of clubs and activities that would support students to learn more about STEM and its relevance to their lives,” she said. Mr Osita Oparaugo, founder/Chief Executive Officer of GetBundi, in a remark, explained that the STEM laboratory that had been set up at Wesley Girls Senior Secondary School was a pilot programme to enable the Lagos State government to assess the platform and get feedback from students and teachers. “The ultimate aim is to ensure that government and GetBundi could then formulate the right framework to deploy the technology across Lagos government schools,” he explained. He said that GetBundi, a government-approved online educational technology platform, was focused on using technology to make high-quality and engaging STEM subjects for secondary school and digital skills courses accessible to all across Africa. “Less than 18 percent of Africans, Nigerians inclusive, who enter the universities, pursue science-related fields due to lack of appreciation of STEM caused by inability of African countries to invest in science education mostly at the secondary school level. “For instance, by 2030, there will be nearly 250 million job gaps in the digital space as our world is constantly changing through technology. “African youths must be equipped with the right skill if they want to be productive and competitive,” he said. He said the existing gaps were the reason for setting up GetBundi with the goal of “massifying STEM and Digital Skill courses across Africa”. According to him, GetBundi has a target to upskill 10 million African workforce by 2030 under the GetBundi Vision 2033. He disclosed that GetBundi currently offers online vocational training on 16 digital skills courses six of which had courses in pidgin English developed by industry experts in Africa and around the world. (NAN)(nannewsngr.con) Edited by Ephraims Sheyin