By Yusuf Yunus The Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) on Saturday urged operators in the Nigerian downstream sector to ensure  automation of their services. According to the body, their services being automated will help them on data generation, improve product delivery storage utilisation and profitability. Mr Clement Isong, the Chief Executive Officer of MOMAN, gave the advice while speaking during a virtual workshop on World International Data Day,  on Saturday. Isong, who spoke on the importance of data and automation in the downstream business, said data on products demand on refined fuels and  lubricants could streamline operations, improve product delivery, storage utilisation, among others. Isong said that the automation would also ensure transparency, excellent customer service, eliminate fraud, corruption and  boost the reputation of the industry. The MOMAN boss urged the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) to invest in infrastructure for data gathering. Isong said, “ Our position in MOMAN is that we are looking for the automation of the entire supply chain. It meas everybody needs to invest in order to optimise their businesses. “Eventually, the beneficiary is the customer. It is good for corporate governance. It removes people’s ability to steal. “And the authority, NMDPRA, itself, has got to invest in infrastructure for data gathering and has got to do a preliminary analysis of that data. “It has to put up that information on its website, which investors, marketers, operators and everybody can access. “On that basis, optimise the business and make investment decisions. It is fundamental to a deregulated system. “It improves the quality of decision-making as well as transparency and eliminates bad behaviour as well as fraud and theft. “You have to shine your light and darkness and bad practices will disappear. This is very important,” lsong added. The lead political analyst, Ikponmwosa Aikhionbare, said that Ghana launched the Bulk Road Vehicle Tracking System (BRVTS) to track the movement of petroleum products from depots to retail outlets. “The system uses GPS technology to monitor the location, speed, and fuel consumption of trucks transporting petroleum products. “In India, the government has implemented a system called the Automated System for Oil Movement and Storage (ASOMS), which tracks the movement of petroleum products through the supply chain. “The system uses data analysis to monitor product quality and identify potential issues before they cause defects or safety hazards,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the virtual workshop was attended by energy journalists and stakeholders in the oil and gas industry. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)   Edited by Olawunmi Ashafa