By Olasunkanmi Onifade The Managing Director, Nigeria Communications Satellite (NIGCOMSAT) Ltd, Mr Tukur Lawal says it will reposition its business development plan towards achieving the much-desired competitive edge. Lawal said this at a two-day retreat organised for the Board and Management of NIGCOMSAT Ltd in Abuja on Tuesday. The theme of the retreat is “Redefining the NIGCOMSAT roadmap for exponential growth”. He said the purpose of the retreat was for the management and board members to work as a team to achieve the requisite excellence. “Today offers us another opportunity to reappraise our situation and find lasting solutions to the myriad of problems surrounding NIGCOMSAT Ltd,”he said. Lawal said the new approach would help breathe into NIGCOMSAT Ltd a new lease of life. “As we dwell on issues surrounding this organisation, let’s all bear in mind that the future of this company lies on the outcome of this retreat, ” he said. Lawal said the challenges were not insurmountable, adding that it had the mentality to defeat the challenges to turn around the fortunes of the company. He recalled the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Pantami, had shared with them his thoughts on the prospects of the company, following a thorough evaluation of its performance, operational capacity and potential for rapid growth. “The minister consequently tasked us to brace up for the challenges ahead. Indeed, his position was instructive in view of the numerous challenges before us and the last chance we have as an agency to exist. “He advised that the board and management not to rush into competitive marketing with other competitors in the industry, it is because of our relatively recent entry into the country’s digital space,” Lawal said. The md said it was against that background that the retreat called for retrospection, adding,”we need a serious soul searching as these two choices stare us in the face: To either survive in this industry or to perish.” The Chairman of the board, Mr Yusuf Kazaure said the aim of the retreat was to reposition the company by reviewing its strategies and objectives. “This event allow us the opportunity to work as a team .We expect a better alignment in managing the staffers of the company . ” We have been able to Identify some of the key things that hinder our operational success and come up with ways and means to be able to over come those challenges. “We should also be able to achieve realistic measurable and smart objectives for better of performance of the company,”he said. The Lead Consultant of the retreat, Mr Jack Chime, said NIGCOMSAT was a public sector company but private driven, adding,”We are yet to meet the expectations of the government.” He, however, said the retreat was to redefine the process by addressing the strategic intentions, vision and road maps to reach greater heights. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Bashir Rabe Mani