By Stephen Adeleye The officials of Kogi Government and Stakeholders in the financial sectors, have sensitised Kogi residents on the need to accept the old naira notes in line with the Supreme Court judgment. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the Supreme Court on March 3, ruled that the new and old naira notes should co-exist as legal tender in Nigeria till Dec. 31. Addressing a large crowd at the newly constructed Ganaja Flyover on Monday in Lokoja, the State Commissioner for Information and Communications, Mr Kingsley Fanwo, congratulated Nigerians on the Supreme Court judgment. Fanwo said the people could now use both the old and new naira notes together till Dec. 31, 2023. “We have met with the banks and they have agreed that they will accept old naira notes as deposits. ”So, we urge all commercial motorcycle riders, Keke riders and market men and women to accept the old naira notes. “The state government is grateful to the banks for their cooperation and commitment to the ruling of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. ”It is criminal to reject old naira notes after the judgment,” Fanwo said. He assured that the state government would monitor the compliance strictly. Also speaking, the State Security Adviser, Cmdr. Jerry Omodara (rtd.) harped on the need for residents to cooperate with the state government in its bids to ease the current financial strains occasioned by the current cash policy. Omodara said his office would work with security agencies to ensure compliance. In his remarks, Mr Idris Asiru, the Kogi Commissioner for Finance and Budget Planning, said the banks were already accepting old naira notes as deposits. Asiru urged the people to take advantage of the cooperation of the banks. He said that he had already gotten the commitment of the banks to load their ATMs with old and new naira notes to ease the cash scarcity in the state. The representatives of the major banks in Lokoja also assured the people of the readiness of the banks to accept old naira notes as deposits. They said the directive took effect from Monday morning, urging customers to freely accept the old naira notes. NAN reports that the sensitisation train visited all transport unions, fuel stations and major markets in Lokoja. The stakeholders assured Kogi people of sustained sensitisation on radio and other media of communication. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========= Edited by Chioma Ugboma