By Philomina Attah Speak Out Africa Initiative (SOAI), an NGO,   says it is taking steps to safeguard participation of Nigerians in elections and fight voter apathy. Executive Director of SOAI, Kenneth Eze, said this on Thursday in Abuja, while unveiling the “Nigeria VoteBeat survey. According to Eze, the survey is in line with SOAI’s commitment to ensuring the credibility and sanctity of the 2023  general elections, including gubernatorial and state Houses Assembly elections.  “The SOAI has launched a survey after the  Presidential and National Assembly elections, and the intricacies that followed it, including ongoing court  cases “The survey is to gauge  the “votebeat” of Nigerians with regards to their voting behavior and likely  participation for the gubernatorial and state assembly elections. “This is expedient  because the way and manner an election is conducted, and the events which follow,  have huge direct impact on voters’ participation,” he said. He said that the group was committed to  safeguarding the participation of voters in all elections.  “To us, whatever that will  create voter apathy is an enemy to democracy and should be confronted  headlong. “The Presidential and National Assembly elections conducted on Feb. 25  by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) are widely adjudged as  controversial by available reports from both local and international observers.  “Unfortunately, this was  supposed to be the freest, fairest, most credible and most acceptable election in the history of our dear country,  considering the huge investment that it attracted. “Irregularities,  logistics lapses, inadequate trained Ad-hoc staff as well as perceived breach of  trust on the part of  INEC is at the center of discussion,” he said. The executive director said that the overall effect of the development was likely to have serious impact  on the voter participation in future elections. “The CSOs have labored so much to make the  Nigerian voter repose confidence on INEC. “This must not be eroded, hence, we  launched the “Nigeria VoteBeat Survey (NVS)” to gauge, identify, diagnose and  address possible electoral deficits. “For emphasis, the two key parameters and drivers for this survey will be process and participation, and would never have anything to do with election  outcome. “This is because for any election, a winner will merge but the  process by which the outcome is determined is more key to the survival of any  democracy.  “Incidentally, process and participation are interwoven and form the  basis for election democracy,” he said. Eze said that  the survey was for citizens  to appraise INEC’s conduct, and adherence to its own guidelines. He called on INEC to rebuild its integrity and trust,  and close all the lapses identified in the last presidential and national assembly elections. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Kadiri Abdulrahman/Isaac Aregbesola