By Joy Odigie The Lift Above Poverty Organisation (LAPO), a Non-Governmental Organisation, has advocated for equitable distribution of resources to women in the society. Dr Godwin Ehigiamusoe, Chief Executive Officer of the organisation, made the call at the 11th LAPO Outstanding Women Leadership Award (LOWLA) in Benin on Tuesday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that LOWLA is an annual event organised by LAPO in commemoration of the International Women’s Day held every March 8. Ehigiamusoe said there still existed a world filled with innumerable hurdles and obstacles hindering gender equity. He said: “Gender -biased deprivations and male-dominated social structures remain strong in our society. “If we fail to challenge gender stereotypes, call out discriminations, draw attention to biases and seek out inclusion, we may not be able to achieve the desired progress including the SDGs”. He added that LOWLA was instituted in 2013 to recognise and honour women who are excelling in business, farming and  professional careers with sustainable social impact. The Guest Speaker, Prof. Adefunke Adekunle, Director of Gender Studies, University of Benin, said equity could be achieved by giving everyone a voice to speak as well as listened to. She said that countries would become more prosperous if collective efforts were given to women and women led businesses to function at their fullest potentials. Also, the Chairperson, Prof. Stella Chiemeke, Vice Chancellor, University of Delta, Agbor, advocated for women liberation from poverty and debased lives. The vice chancellor called for sound moral, education and entrepreneurial training for the girl child to reduce the numbers of women living debased lives in the society. “It is high time we looked inwards and try to ensure that we remove our girls living indecent lives from the  streets for them to know that they can contribute positively to societal development,” she said. Chiemeke commended the co-founder of LAPO, Mrs Elizabeth Ehigiamusoe, for being a strong support to her husband and the family. NAN reports that the highlight of the event was the presentation of LAPO Lifetime Achievement Award to  Ehigiamusoe. While the winners of LOWLA Business, Farming and Professional categories included Gladys Okoro,  Mary Durodola and  Helen Azuni. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Chinyere Bassey/Vivian Ihechu