By Emmanuel Afonne Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Sunday Dare, is to be conferred with a “Special Recognition Award” in the Republic of Maldives, an aide of Dare disclosed on Monday. Toyin Ibitoye, the Minister’s Special Assistant on Media, in a statement quoted the Maldives’ Minister of Youth, Sports and Community Empowerment, Ahmed Mahloof, explained the award. Mahloof said it was in recognition of Dare’s contributions to the development of sports in Nigeria and Africa. “In recognition of the work you have carried out for the development of sports in your country and the African region, we will be conferring the “Special Recognition Award” on you,” he said. Ibitoye said the conferment ceremony expected to hold in the Republic of Maldives on March 16, would be attended by the Maldivian President, Ibrahim Solih. He added that world renowned athletes, as well as Maldivian athletes, among others, would also be in attendance. The minister’s aide said the award would add to various others Dare has bagged “in recognition of his stellar performances since assumption of office as Minister of Sports and Youth Development”. He listed such awards to include the Award of Excellence in Public Service given by President Muhammadu Buhari, as well as those by the National Telegraph and Blueprint newspapers. “Others are the Youth Award in the U.S., African Illustrious Minister of the Year Award, among many others. ”Apart from the various awards, Dare has initiated a lot of programmes like the Adopt initiative as well as produced the National Sports Industry Policy, the 10-year Football Development Masterplan and the Talent Hunt Programme. ”He ensured the return of the long and middle distance races, and the cross country race in Nigeria after almost 40 years in the doldrums. “Dare also embarked on the rehabilitation of sports facilities across the country, efforts that have impacted positively on Nigerian sports,” Ibitoye stated. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) =========== Edited by Olawale Alabi