By Ibironke Ariyo The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) says it is strengthening its partnership with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) to eliminate Road Traffic Crashes (RTCs) in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The FCT Sector Commander, Mr Danlami Abdul, said this when he led his management team on a courtesy visit to NAN on Thursday in Abuja. Abdul said that the aim of the visit was to harness the existing cooperation between the two organisations for effective road traffic management in the FCT. He said that the command had been strengthened to deliver efficient services to motorists in line with the core mandate of the corps. Abdul said his target was to reduce road traffic crashes to the barest minimum in the FCT and urged the agency to support the corps in that direction. “I want to see you on ground so that you can help put in your efforts at achieving this with us. Without your contribution, we won’t succeed, so I am here to seek more cooperation. “I have come on board to reduce accidents, I want to ensure the public have access to the Sector Commander always and ensure free flow of traffic. “I am not an officer that seats in the office, I will be out there in the field, I want to also listen to the motorists and change their attitude to driving in the FCT.” The sector commander pledged to “maintain the United Nations standard of 15 minutes response to all obstacles that might cause accident”. Abdul said the Corps Marshal, Dauda Biu, had injected more fleet to Airport Road to ensure free flow of traffic, adding that more personnel would be deployed to tackle accidents and traffic congestion. He pledged to instill discipline in the road marshals, assuring that he would not condone any act capable of compromising the integrity of the corps. “What we can give to the public is good service; we are an organisation that needs to be gentle and remain calm in discharging our responsibilities,” he added. The sector commander urged the public to also monitor the roads and performance of FRSC personnel. “I want feedback to help us in delivering our mandate properly. We are not after enforcement or generating revenue but to save lives. We need cooperation and feedback from you all,” he said. Abdul said that the command would set up a task force to deal with uniformed personnel who beat traffic or cause congestion on the road. “I have spoken to some paramilitary organisations to ensure all officers do the right thing. Whatever department you belong to as an officer, you must do the needful,” he said. He urged NAN staff to join the FRSC Special Marshals to help in road traffic management and accident reduction. He also urged those who come across traffic offenders to report or send such vehicle number plate to the command for appropriate action. Responding, the Managing Director, NAN, Mr Buki Ponle pledged to strengthen existing relationship between the organisations to enhance safety on Nigerian roads. Ponle, represented by the Director, Finance and Accounts, Mr Dele Ojo appreciated the FRSC for working with NAN in the area of advocacy and public education. According to him, the agency has over 40 years experience in news dissemination and management and has established itself as the foremost news organisation in Nigeria and Africa. “When you talk to NAN, you have basically talked to all. The agency is everywhere in Nigeria, in the 36 states including FCT and we are present in 24 districts offices and four foreign offices. “We have news exchanges with reputable international news outlets such as Reuters, Xinhua, among others, so it means that whatever you say at a time is virtually everywhere. “So we are not just limited to the FCT, people that are even beyond FCT will get to know much of what you are doing in your duty post. “We will give you the support as we have been given to your predecessors and you will have access to this place,” the managing director said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Maharazu Ahmed