Manchester City defender Nathan Ake struck in the second half to earn his side a hard-fought 1-0 victory over visitors Arsenal in the FA Cup fourth round. The current top two teams in the 2022/2023 English Premier League (EPL) cancelled each other out in the first half on Friday. Erling Haaland twice went close for Manchester City, while pacesetters Arsenal forced home goalkeeper Stefan Ortega into two fine saves to keep them at bay. Manchester City’s Pep Guardiola brought Julian Alvarez off the bench early in the second half, with the Argentina striker playing a big part in the winner. He fired against the post before Ake slotted home from the follow-up in the 64th minute. Arsenal’s coach Mikel Arteta rang the changes in search of a leveller but they could not break Manchester City’s resistance. The hosts progressed to remain in the hunt to win the domestic trophy Guardiola has claimed just once during his time in England. Arsenal started the brightest at the Etihad in spite of making six changes to the side that beat Manchester United last weekend. January signing Leandro Trossard from Brighton & Hove Albion looked lively, setting up an early opening for Takehiro Tomiyasu, who was denied by Ortega. Haaland, eyeing his 32nd goal in all competitions in a remarkable debut season in England, was feeding off scraps. All he needed was a half-chance and the striker used his pace to capitalise on two Arsenal errors but was unable to find the net. Kevin De Bruyne curled a shot wide, but it was Trossard who went closest to breaking the deadlock in the opening period, bringing out a fine one-handed stop from Ortega. Manchester City upped the ante after the break, finally wearing Arsenal down as Dutch defender Ake showed the finishing skills of a striker. He calmly found the bottom corner after Alvarez’s effort had thundered against the upright. With their main attention clearly elsewhere, Arsenal did not offer enough to find an equaliser. With the Premier League the priority, fewer games in a congested season could benefit the London side’s quest for the big prize. (Reuters/NAN) =========== Edited by Olawale Alabi