By Ephraims Sheyin Ahead of the Presidential election holding Feb. 25, Mr Joseph Edgar, public affairs analyst and columnist, is organising an online town hall debate for four political parties. The debate scheduled to hold at 5 p.m. on Sunday, Jan. 29, is expected to feature ordinary Nigerians that will tell a global audience why they should vote for particular candidates. Edgar, Chairman, Duke of Shomolu Productions, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Lagos that attendance would be “free and open to all passionate Nigerians wishing to change the narrative”. He said that the debate is organised in partnership with The Cable News which would livestream the activity through Thealvinreport.com. According to him, the APC, PDP, LP and PRP will feature in the debate. Key issues expected to dominate discussions include the economy, security, health and education. “We want ordinary Nigerians to debate their political fate and future. “You don’t have to be a card carrying member of any political party to discuss its proposals and plans for Nigeria. “We want more people to participate in the political process. “We shall livestream the town hall meeting globally via our partners. We already have more than a thousand members of the audience ready with their posers and questions.” He explained that the online town hall debate would give ordinary Nigerians the opportunity to share their passion for the top four parties. “These ordinary Nigerians have extraordinary passion about their political parties. We want them to tell us why. “The debate will certainly be a fireball of strong positions with each political party represented by a strong voice.” Among the voices, he disclosed, is Osa Unweni, “a mercurially brilliant entrepreneur who is a strong believer in the PDP’s flag bearer, Atiku Abubakar. “He is a graduate of Philosophy from the University of Lagos and holds a MSc in Global Management from the University of Salford, UK. “He is an alumnus of both IESE Business School and Columbia Business School “He believes Atiku has the magic wand to make Nigeria better. We want him to explain why he is so optimistic. “We also have Tope Kolade Fasua, one of the most brilliant economic essayists on the African continent who is providing the economic theoretical framework for APC. “Fasua, 51, is a businessman, economist, writer and Presidential candidate of the Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP) in 2019. “He is the founder and CEO of Global Analytics Consulting Limited, an international consulting firm in Abuja. “We want him to tell the audience what APC can do in the next four years which they could not do in the last eight years. “There is also Theo John Phillips, a hard-as-nail super successful business man who has toured the country on his bike and is vouching for LP. “He is a blogger, writer, public speaker, philanthropist and a motorcycle riding enthusiast. “He believes that the LP candidate, Peter Obi, can rescue Nigeria. We want him to explain this on stage. “There is also Sule Mohammed who is the National Organising Secretary of the PRP. “He has been a party man since 1978 during his NYSC days with the Ilorin office of the NTA. “He is a journalist, a teacher and has been in the public sector for a while. He believes that Kola Abiola has something to offer. We should listen to him. “He will be supported on stage by Mr Bisi Olaogun who is contesting for a seat in the Ogun House of Assembly on the PRP platform”. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) Edited by Ephraims Sheyin