By Oladapo Udom   Maj.-Gen. Ademoh Salihu (rtd.) on Friday charged military personnel to be patriotic, creative and vigilant, especially at a time when the nation was faced with diverse security challenges. Salihu, who was the Special Guest of Honour at the Nigerian Army Signals 2023 Pulling Out Ceremony of retired senior officers, said the security challenges had necessitated several kinetic operations, which had placed a high demand on the Nigerian Army. “Consequently, I admonish serving military personnel to continue to be loyal, creative and extra vigilant. “You must continue to demonstrate total commitment to the security of the nation just as you have exemplified in the successes recorded in the fight against insurgency in the country. “Nigerians, especially we the retirees are expecting a lot from you,” the major general said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Maj.-Gen. Ademoh Salihu (rtd.) was a Commander of the Nigerian Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC). According to Salihu, the unique ceremony signified the end of their military careers after about 35 years or thereabout, of active service. “I am, therefore, deeply grateful to the Almighty God for his grace, guidance, wisdom and protection throughout our years of service. “I am highly delighted to witness this event alive and in good health. It is also a premise that whatsoever has a beginning must ultimately have an end,” he said. Salihu said that the Pulling Out parade was organised in honour of retired Generals in recognition of unblemished military service to the nation and dated back to the colonial era. “The occasion brings serving and retiring officers as well as other well-wishers together to bid the retired Generals farewell as they transit to life in retirement. “It is on this note that this ceremony is organised to celebrate me and other retired colleagues of the Corps of Signals for successful military careers,” he said. The major general seized the opportunity to encourage serving officers and men of the Nigerian Army Signals to make early preparation for retirement. “I still remember my cadet days in the Nigerian Defence Academy just like yesterday. “You must not assume that 35 years is a long time and waste away precious time thinking you have enough time to plan for your retirement. “Please endeavour to put everything you ought to put in place early enough, so that you are not put under any unnecessary pressure after retirement,” he said. Salihu added that they should build good and healthy relationships based on mutual trust and respect and relate well with colleagues in the Armed Forces, friends outside the service and family. He thanked the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, for his support to the Corps of Signals and for approving resources for the conduct of this pulling-out ceremony. “I am particularly delighted with the resuscitation of some tradition and customs of the Nigerian Army that are almost forgotten. “I also wish to humbly appreciate the Commander Corps Signals, Maj.-Gen Garba Abdullahi, for his selflessness in putting this memorable ceremony to honour our exit,” Salihu said. NAN also reports that 18 senior officers were pulled out from the Nigerian Army Signals. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Ifeyinwa Omowole