By Emmanuel Oloniruha The Governorship Candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) in Cross River, Dr Wilfred Bonse, has advised electorate in the state to vote for candidate that would advance its development in the forthcoming elections. Bonse in a statement on Saturday in Abuja, said that the choice of the electorate would define the socio-economic and political future of Cross Rivers. He urged the electorate to cast their votes for him and his party, adding that he was in the race to bring to bear his experience in financial management to help restore the state’s lost glory. “2023 is going to be a defining year in the political history of our great nation in general and our dear state in particular, as we will be going to the polls to decide our electoral, political, social, economic, and developmental future. “The choices before us are quite simple, and the options are very unambiguous. We have to choose between the continuation of the status quo or choose to break free and vote for a future we can be proud of. “It is for this reason that I’m offering my service to the people of Cross River State. I bring you a viable, credible, and competent alternative to the status quo. “I come with the fresh breeze of a new dawn, where Cross River State can live up to the true meaning of its title: “The People’s Paradise. “I bring you a mixed bag of high-capacity expertise in financial management, engineering, alongside a high level of goodwill among the foreign investors and the business community, to say the very least. “A vote for me is a vote to restore Cross River State to her state of lost glory as well as setting her on the path to rapid accelerated growth and development,” the Bonse said. The governorship hopeful called on the electorate in the state to cast their votes for NNPP for development of the state. He said that NNPP remained the only viable, credible and competent alternative, capable of rescuing the state and giving Cross River people a future they would be proud of. He added that NNPP is also politically equipped to save the country, saying “I believe we can save Nigeria, one state at a time. “As we go to the polls, let us make use of the power we have been given by the universal adult suffrage provision of the Constitution, to bring about a new Cross River, free from the shackles of subjugation and socioeconomic slavery. “New Nigeria and a New Cross River are possible. Let’s begin with Cross River State, vote NNPP,” he appealed. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ==================== Edited by Olabisi Akinbode/Isaac Aregbesola