By Augusta Uchediunor Lagos, Jan. 20, 2023 (NAN) Himel, a market leader in value-engineered electrical products, has bagged the prestigious Global Brand Awards, at the 10th edition of the Global Brands Magazine (GBM) Awards. GBM is an international publication with headquarters in the UK. Staying true to its values, Himel won the award for the ‘Most Reliable Value-Engineered Electrical Products Brand, `MENA’. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Global Brand Awards recognises vital players who progress toward excellence by providing a platform to acknowledge their efforts. HIMEL is a global manufacturer and provider of robust, reliable and safe electrical products Their mission is to make efficient and reliable power easily accessible to people, wherever they are – home, office, industrial or commercial facility. The annual award aims at recognising global brands achieving excellence in performance across a broad range of sectors while simultaneously keeping their readers updated on key trends from the branding arena. A statement by the company said Himel was evaluated based on its global footprint, value-engineering, and reliability, all critical metrics in the world of electrical products. Shrinivas Chebbi, the Global Head of Himel, commented on their success. “We are honoured to be recognised and awarded across two key strategic regions. “Our commitment to value engineering and contextual understanding of emerging economies has been central to driving regional success. “We have established our competitive advantage in premium projects as well. “Value engineering in design, procurement, production and implementation – the benefits are multifaceted. “It is not about minimising cost, it is about maximising benefits. Any scale of project can benefit from this. “A testimony to the stacking effect of right marketing and sales strategies, these awards echo our vision and efforts to facilitate access to high-quality electrical products and support accelerated development of safer homes, commercial spaces, and industrial facilities.” Vibha Thusu, the Global Head of Marketing and Communication, Himel, also commented on Himel being awarded for its notable efforts with global recognition. “At Himel, our marketing strategies, underpinned at all times by the vision of reliability and affordability, aim to push the perceived limitations of cost-efficient electrical products. “Through extensive on-ground and online marketing initiatives, involving multichannel customer engagement, and nudging conversations around the need of safer electrical products. “We have been able to establish our brand as a thought leader in the value engineering space.” With a footprint in 50+ countries, Himel values opportunities for all and provides the best combination of affordable and reliable products to meet the demand for access to safe electricity. Furthermore, Himel also adapts a ‘top-down’ approach towards nurturing employee experience, firmly believing that putting its employees first is imperative to Himel’s success. To create a cohesive environment where everyone can succeed, Himel leads with a purpose-driven marketing strategy to maintain authentic relationship with their customers and establish loyalty within their community. Adding to this, active participation from Himel’s leadership across its community interactions helps the brand to identify the pulse of the business and replicate the success year after year.(NAN)   Edited by Vivian Ihechu