By Abdul Hassan / Bashir Rabe Mani The Zabarkano Association of Nigeria has called for the establishment of a National Minority Tribes Development Commission (NMTDC). “To this effect, we are urging that lets an executive bill be sent to the National Assembly for the immediate establishment of the proposed commission. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)reports that the National President of the association, Alhaji Isa Sahabi-Bankanu made the call on Saturday in Abuja at the inauguration of its national and state executives. NAN also reports that the association is the umbrella of all Zarma/Zabarmawa associations in the country. Zarma is one of the most spoken languages in Kebbi, Sokoto, Zamfara and Niger States. Isa-Bankanu said: “The proposed commission will help to preserve the national heritage of the country and foster sustainable harmony. “It will also bolster national unity, cement the relationships between the various ethnic groups and boost socio-economic prosperity of Nigeria.” Isa-Bankanu also commended the efforts of the Federal Government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari and the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III in keeping Nigeria as an indivisible nation. He said that the association was formed 17 years ago to unite the Zabarma people and emble meaningfully contribute their quota to national development. Isa-Bankanu urged the members of the association to united and work for its progress and facilitating peace and unity of Nigeria. Also speaking, the Secretary General of the association, Dr Lawwal Sani-Kasgada said: “We are people that have been coexisting peacefully with our fellow citizens. “The need for this association and the need for us to support the democratic values of our dear nation cannot come at a better time than now,” he said. The Guest Speaker, Mr Aliyu Ishaq-Lolo urged the new leaders to build bridges of unity and give all the members a sense of belonging. Ishaq-Lolo, who is also the Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDGs said: “All hands must be on deck to ensure peace of love and patriotism.” The Traditional Ruler of the Zabarma people in Abuja, Alhaji Aminu Maizinari described the members of the association as peace loving, industrious and patriotic. The national leader of the association (Jagaban), Alhaji Murtala Hassan-Tela cautioned the members against involvement in criminal activities and any untoward activity. NAN further reports that the event was attended by delegates from the 36 States and FCT, as well as Canada, Belgium, Sudan, Niger Republic, Ghana, Chad and Saudi Arabia, among others. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ============ Edited by Bashir Rabe Mani