By Assumpta Odoh The International Press Centre (IPC) has unveiled plan to train Nigerian media on 2023 general elections coverage. The training which held on Tuesday would feature discussions on the findings of monitoring in October and November 2022 and presentation of revised Nigerian Media Code of Election Coverage. Mr Lanre Arogundade, the Executive Director IPC, said that the analysis of the media monitoring report of the 2023 elections was pivotal in determining the extent to which the elections can be said to be inclusive. Arogundade said that IPC would present a performance scorecard by the monitored media based on their promotion of inclusive issues in their coverage and reportage of the electoral processes. He said that the convergence would attract stakeholders from the media, civil society, academia, regulatory bodies, and other relevant organisations would present the opportunity for the media monitoring report to be assessed. Similarly, Arogundade said that the overall goal of the media component was to support the consolidation of democracy in Nigeria with the media helping to facilitate the key ingredient of credible elections through engagement and professionalism in coverage and reportage of the electoral processes. “The media monitoring is one of the activities being implemented by IPC under an EU funded project. “The project involves strengthening the media for fair, accurate, ethical, and inclusive coverage of the electoral processes and elections in Nigeria,” he said. Arogundade listed the newspapers monitored by IPC as follows: The Punch, The Guardian, Daily Sun, Vanguard, ThisDay, Nigerian Tribune, The Nation, Leadership, Daily Trust, and Daily Independent while the five online media include The Cable, the Premium Times, Eagle Online, RealNews and the Authority. “Also monitored are the News Portal (website) and the twitter handles of Nigeria’s election management body, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)”, He said. Prof Abigail Ogwezzy-Ndisika of the Department of Mass Communication, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Lagos, shall serve as the reviewer of the reports, while Mr. Iyobosa Uwugiaren, General Secretary, NGE and Dr. Chido Onumah, Coordinator of AFRICMIL, (Vice President, North Central, ACSPN), shall be the lead discussants.(NAN). (www.nannews.ng)   ====== Edited by Dorcas Jonah/ Isaac Aregbesola