Some stakeholders at the meeting in Abuja By Okon Okon African Union Development Agency-New Partnership for Africa`s Development (AUDA-NEPAD) and stakeholders from private sectors, Civil Society Organisations, media and others converged on Abuja to brainstorm on strategies for national development through AUDA-NEPAD activities. The programme tagged `National multi-stakeholder consultation on the evaluation of the first 10 years implementation plan and the formulation of the successor plan`, organised by the AUDA-NEPAD, is a second 10 years implementation plan of agenda 2063. It is focused on incubating high-impact projects to translate AU`s continental strategic development frameworks into national development priorities. Speaking, Gloria Akobundu, National Coordinator AUDA-NEPAD, said the gathering was necessitated by the expiration of the first 10-year implementation plan from 2014 to 2023 and the need to draw up the second 10-year implementation plan, commencing from 2023 to 2033. Represented by Mr Hakeem Akande, Acting Head of Planning, Research, Innovation and Digitisation, Akobundu further said that the forum was one of the tools for assessing and reporting on the implementation of agenda 2063. “It is pertinent to note that the continent developmental guide, agenda 2063 which was adopted in January 2015 at the 24th AU`s Assembly of Head of States and government. “It is aimed at strengthening actions in accelerating development and good government in Africa. “As you are aware, the first 10-year implementation plan was adopted, covering seven aspirations, 20 goals, 13 fast tract projects and 39 priority areas with 255 targets of agenda 2063. “ Speaking on objective of the consultation, Mrs Ifeoma Okoye said the forum was to x-ray the past progress of the first 10-year plan, identifying the gaps and strategies ways forward for more progress, hence the need to engage stakeholders. Speaking in an interview, Akande  explained that the forum was to further look into the AU agenda 2063 framework which is all about good governance and delivering to Nigerians in particular and Africa in general. “So far, it started in 2015 and it was a 50-year developmental plan to end in 2063, you know like most plan, you must have some terminal or mid way where you will stop. “Look back, review what you’ve done, and look at the impacts, challenges see whether what you’ve put in place like the blueprint of the framework is working or not working and then go back and re-strategize. “ According to him, the reason behind the gathering is to evaluate to bring out the best from the stakeholders so as to have a successful second 10-year implementation plan. Speaking further on challenges, Akande said the expectation of the first 10-year implementation plan was high but was disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic which ravaged the global economic activities in last three years. Also, retired Group Capt. Mohamed Gumi, member, National Institute for Security Studies Abuja, said he was interested in the forum which sought to prepare Nigeria for the next 10 years implementation plan. According to Gumi, the preparedness can only be achieved only when the nation knew where it is coming from in terms of the first 10-year plan before it could successfully implement the second plan. “That means we have to look at the first 10-year implementation plan. “ As Nigeria may be aware, the AU reviewed itself and said where does it want Africa to be in 50 years to come, and the union came up with a blueprint of action called `The Africa we want` which was titled agenda 2063. “ According to him, all countries of Africa including Nigeria were to key into that continental agenda and Nigeria keyed into the first 10-year implementation plan. “And, 10 years after we are here today to critically examine, assess the level of implementation of the first 10-year plan and after that, we will now fashion out the roadmap for the second 10-year implementation plan. “ The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Agenda 2063 was adopted by the African leaders to serve as the continent`s blueprint and master plan for transforming Africa into the powerhouse of the future. (NAN) (www.nannews,ng) ========= Edited by Isaac Aregbesola