By Uchenna Eletuo An NGO known as A Mother Love Initiative (AMLi) wants governments to create affordable and quality education system for children in the country. AMLi focuses on the provision of interventions to aid individuals and families advance children’s educational pursuits. The Founder of AMLi, Mrs Hanatu Enwemadu, made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos, as the United Nation’s (UN) 2023 International Day for Education is marked on Tuesday. NAN reports that the UN marks  Jan. 24 annually to celebrate education and review its prospect for the development of the society. The theme of the 2023 International Day for Education is “Invest in People, Prioritise Education” Enwemadu, who said  that without education, humanity was doomed, called for the prioritisation of education  for a sustainable future. She described education as “the light that shines for the common good. “A better society should raise its children to ensure that the children are stable and balanced in order to make the children useful for self, family and the community.” The educationist frowned at the unstable nature of Nigeria’s education sector, and tasked parents and leaders to ensure that children’s education is taken seriously for societal sustainability. According to her, such measures when taken, give hope for a happy future. “African leaders, especially from Nigeria, should ensure that youths access quality and affordable education that would groom, prepare and provide the continent with quality future leadership. “That would promote social, national and economic development that will position Africa for global business competitiveness. “Since 2021, our organisation has increased the awareness and level of engagement at the national level to ensure that every home is aware and sensitised on the need to stop the practice of hurrying children through life without planned education. “One of the objectives of AMLi is to push for serious advocacy against total elimination of hurried child syndrome in Africa. In this year’s International Day of Education, we appeal to parents to discard this syndrome for its bad outcomes,” she said. According to the educationist who stresses the importance of education to national development, education is a human right affecting Africa’s development. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)   Edited by Vincent Obi