By Dorcas Jonah The National President, National Council for Women Societies (NCWS) Nigeria, Hajiya Lami Lau, has called on Nigerians to intensify prayers for the country ahead of the 2023 general elections. Lau made the call in her New Year message to Nigerians on Sunday in Abuja. According to her, 2023 is an important year for Nigerians to make wise decisions through their votes. Lau urged Nigerians and women in particular to pray for peace of the country as there couldn’t be free and fair elections without peace. According to her, 2023 is an election year and there is the need to pray for free and fair elections. ”We need to pray for God’s intervention in the current security situation in the country. We need to use our votes to make the difference in our country. ”As mothers, we are the worst hit with the present economic situation and our prayers are that 2023 will be better,” she said. Lau said that there was hope for Nigerians in the new year, adding: ”God promises us hope in times of despair, strength in times of weakness, recovery after tragedies. ”God also promised that He will never forsake us in times of trouble. “I felicitate Nigerians for making it to 2023. Let us all give God all the glory for His mercies and loving kindness.” Lau said the year 2022 was a challenging year that put Nigeria and Nigerians through very challenging life tests that stretched our capacities for endurance to the limits. She added: “The economic crisis manifested in inflation, unemployment, under-employment, job losses, weak naira and general low earning capacities that brought Nigerians face to face with threats to their very survival. “Insecurity which many citizens had wished would abate got a resurgence compounding the already difficult life for most Nigerians.” Lau also urged women to vote for women candidates irrespective of their political parties and tribes. ”We need to support our own by voting for all women candidates, this is the only way we can change the narrative. ”Over the years, women have continued to clamour for both elective and appointive positions and the only way to change this is through our votes,” she said.(NAN) (www.nannews,ng) ================= Edited by Bashir Rabe Mani