By Segun Giwa Federal Polytechnic Ado-Ekiti on Sunday in Owo emerged overall winners of the 21st edition of Nigeria Polytechnic Games Association (NIPOGA) after garnering 23 gold, 14 silver and nine bronze medals. Lagos State Polytechnic came second with 13 gold, 22 silver and 17 bronze medals, while The Polytechnic of Ibadan finished third with 10 gold, one silver and 11 bronze medals. Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, who declared the event closed told newsmen on Sunday in Owo said the competition’s Local Organising Committee (LOC) had done a great job. Akeredolu, represented by the Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Bamidele Ologun, congratulated the management of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic Owo (RUGIPO) for successfully hosting the games. He also used the opportunity to charge the next hosts to embark on early preparations. “The next hosts should not wait till few days to the games before they start their preparations. They should avoid the fire brigade approach,” the governor said. Gani Ogundahunsi, President of NIPOGA Council, who is also the RUGIPO Rector, attributed the successful hosting of the 21st NIPOGA to God. He appreciated the governor for the support and attention which helped in the successful hosting of the games. Ogundahunsi added that resilience, hard work and proper preparations kept the LOC going from the beginning to the end of the games. “The ultimate thing is to organise a befitting competition that brings honour to the name of our institution and the state at large. We remained focus by not allowing anything to distract us. “I expect the next hosts, Delta State Polytechnic in Ogwuashi-Uku, to do better than what we did, because they would have learnt a lot from us,” he said. Rector of Delta State Polytechnic, Prof. Emmanuel Achuenu, after receiving the NIPOGA flag as hosts of the games’ 22nd edition, said their target was to do better than what RUGIPO had done. “No doubt, RUGIPO has done a very good job, but we are going to ensure that we surpass them by organising a better games in 2025,” he said. Achuenu charged all the institutions in NIPOGA and their athletes to start preparing for the games’ next edition since the dates have been known. Meanwhile, the female football team of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic their defeated Yaba College of Technology counterparts 3-2 in the final of their competition. Also, Federal Polytechnic Nasarawa beat Federal Polytechnic Ede 3-1 after a penalty kicks shootout to win the male football event, after a goalless draw in regulation time. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========= Edited by Olawale Alabi