By Lizzy Okoji Justice Amoako Asante, President of the ECOWAS Community Court of Justice, says the regional court is set for improved and effective performance with its relocation to its new office complex. Asante made this known on Monday in Abuja at the opening of the Court’s new building, located Plot 1164, Joseph Gomwalk Street, Gudu District Abuja, which will serve as a temporary facility until the completion of the ECOWAS Complex. Asante said that the Court’s previous building it occupied since 2002 had become inadequate to cope with its operations, operating from two separate buildings, the increasing staff population and needs. “The relocation into the building opens a new dawn in the life of the Court. “Beyond the improved physical environment that it provides for the staff, it also offers the court an opportunity for improved efficiency and productivity in the performance of its role as an international court. “Moreover, it should encourage the court to expand its staff profile through additional recruitment to fill the vacancies in its organogram,” he said.  According to him, this is to leverage the additional skills for increased productivity in meeting the yearnings of the community citizens and the fulfilment of its mandate. “The provision of this edifice will not only resolve the present accommodation challenge of the court but should challenge the Court to aspire to increased performance that is reflective of the more congenial working environment. “I wish to use this opportunity to reassure the Community of the determination of the Court to live up to this expectation. “In order to strengthen its role as an important institution in the ECOWAS integration architecture with the primary responsibility for the promotion of Community laws through the interpretation of community texts.  “Unfortunately, the effectiveness of the Court has been circumscribed by the poor enforcement of its decisions, which stands at about 30 per cent. “In spite of the Court’s impressive record of decisions and courage attributable to the independence and character of the judges,” Asante said. Asante thanked Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Mohammed Bello for giving the Court the Property to operate. President of the ECOWAS Commission, Omar Touray said that the new building represent a significant milestone in the ongoing efforts to strengthen the rule of law and promote human rights in West Africa. Touray, however, lamented the poor implementation rate of the Court’s judgement and decisions, a situation he called for urgent remedy. “I am confident that the new office will provide the Court with the necessary resources and facilities to function efficiently and effectively. “It is disheartening to hear Justice Asante to lament the slow implementation rate of the decisions of the court. That is a situation that we need to remedy. “Our citizens must have hope in the rule of law and they should see rule of law being applied. “The low rate of implementation of the Court of justice decision does not tell well and we should be in a position to remedy that. “We thank the government once again, the people and his Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari for the trust and confidence he continues to repose in ECOWAS institutions,” Touray said. Minister of State, Foreign Affairs, Zubairu Dada, said that “Nigeria is always ready to ensure that it provides the necessary support and encouragements to all ECOWAS Institutions. Dada also urged Member States to ensure the total implementation of the Community Court’s decisions to show that the rule of law prevails and to gain the trust and confidence of community citizens. “As a matter of honor and duty, we are committed to ensuring that our sub-regional organization remain the best in Africa and indeed one of the best in the world. “The President of the Commission has lamented the poor implementation of the Court’s decisions and this is where we must remind ourselves to the commitment to this court by ensuring that its judgments are not only adhered to but implemented to the later,” Dada said. Bello who was represented by Mr Umar Musa from the FCT Administration pledged its continuous support to the effective operation of all ECOWAS institutions including the Community Court of Justice. The FCT Minister also assured  the regional Court of renewing the rent of the complex upon its expiration.(NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Isaac Aregbesola