By Vivian Emoni The Climate and Sustainable Development Network (CSDevNet), a Civil Society Organisation (CSO) has appointed Prof. Ibitoru Hart as one of its board members to promote sustainable development across the country. The Chair Board of Trustees of the organisation, Prof. Ibrahim Choji stated this at the Annual General Meeting of the Network in Abuja on Tuesday. He expressed optimism that Hart’s rich experience in research and sustainable development issues would help propel the network to greater heights. Choji said the appointment would also help to address both environmental and other critical challenges being faced in the society. He explained that Hart hails from Bonny Local Government Area of Rivers, and a professor of Hydrobiology and Fisheries Biology at the University of Port Harcourt. “She attended University of Ibadan and the University of Port Harcourt, where she bagged her Bachelor’s, Master’s and Doctorate degrees between 1979, 1983 and 1994, respectively. “Besides her professorial post at the University of Port Harcourt, Hart is the Coordinator of the Hydrobiology/Fisheries Unit and Chair occupant, Bruce Powell Chair of Hydrobiology Fisheries. “She is also a permanent member of Senate, Associate Dean Faculty of Biological Science, Director of Institute of Natural Resource Environment and Sustainable Development (INRES). “Also, a Vice-Chairman to Bonny Environmental Consultative Committee,” he said. Choji added that Hart serves as Patron to Niger Delta Students Union Government Rivers State branch, University of Port Harcourt chapter, Editor-in-Chief of the Nigerian Journal of Fisheries, and member of Fisheries Society of Nigeria. According to him, Hart is a member of several national and international associations, including the Science Association of Nigeria, Aquatic Sciences of Nigeria. “Also, Pan African Fish and Fisheries Association, World Aquaculture Society, United States, Aquaculture Society and the Asian Pacific Chapter of the World Aquaculture Society. “She is happily married and has authored several books and articles,” he added. Choji said that the CSDevNet was the leading coalition of the CSOs, working on climate and sustainable development with the aim of addressing climate change issues. In her response, she commended the Network’s efforts towards facilitating a climate-resilience for sustainable Nigeria. Hart assured to be committed by supporting the full attainment of the organisational objectives. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ============== Edited by Gregg Mmaduakolam/Rabiu Sani-Ali