By Bridget Ikyado The Management of Euroafrica Educational Services has inaugurated its language centre, Euroafrica Polish Language Centre to promote legal migration and bilateral ties amongst others. The Founder of the Centre, Mr Olakunle Alayande, who  made this known on Monday in Abuja, said the purpose of the Polish Language Centre was to transmit the language and culture of Poland to the youth in Nigeria. “The centre will ensure once you choose our language centre, you will be fully prepared for your further education in the territory of Poland,’’ he said. Alayande said the centre was the first Polish centre established in Nigeria. “Opening our Polish Language Centre is a blessing as the students may progress in learning and stepping ahead in life; they will find new ways and methods to make life better for the future,” he said. He said that if students chose to study in the language centre, they would get a chance to learn intensive courses in Polish language. The founder said this was aimed at enabling fast understanding of polish sentences, constructions on semester and yearly basis to completely flow into the language. “After students complete a course in our language centre, they will have to get through an exam that shows if they have mastered the language. “It will go with a certificate that includes the courses, the results of their courses and the certificate will be recognised in the territory of Poland,” he said. Amb. Akinremi Bolaji, the Director of Economics Trade and Investment, Ministry of Foreign Affairs said the centre was a welcomed idea. He described the centre as a private initiative with a public interest. “People connecting people is what the countries look out for; Europe today need Africans and vice versa, and from the ministry we are giving all our support. Bolaji said establishing the centre had cultural and economic benefits to Nigeria. He said Nigeria was not against the “Japa’’ syndrome but wants Nigerian to do the right thing which was using legal and regular migration as citizen’s right would not be infringed on. He said government placed emphasis on movement within the ambit of the law. “Countries want you to come planned, prepared and well documented. “If you patronise such centres and get a means of relocating, you are duly registered and issues of maltreatment can be traced and dealt with by the government. “Such avenues encourage legal migration and labour migration as a result of knowledge acquired,” he said. The Co-founder of the Centre, Mrs Aleksandra Alaynade, said  the benefits of learning Polish or more than one languages could make one’s résumé stand out where there were competitions. “In addition to the position, relevant experienced companies often look for candidate who can offer more cultural diversity,” she said. She said learning to speak Polish “is absolutely necessary if one intends to run a business in Poland.’’ “Poland’s economy is one of the strongest in the region, so the language is in high demand,” she said. The co-founder said another advantage was that Polish language would provide one a great opportunity to study many interesting faculties in polish language. “We have marketing and management, computer sciences, medicine and nursing. “Students gain the possibility of using the acquired knowledge in Nigeria, as education in Poland is at a very high-level. “On the average, Poland is one of the best countries in the world in quality of education,” she said. According to her, Poland’s education institutions score high in international rankings. “This is one of the reasons lots of polish people are able to find well-paid jobs in other European countries or places like the U.S. or Australia. “Students’ internship is obligatory at polish universities and majority of it are in Polish,’’ she said. She said studying Polish language helped in enjoying the rich culture and travel experience as language would not be a barrier. The co-founder said the foundation of any language was its community, adding that Polish was spoken by almost 50 million people world-wide, “which makes it the second most widely spoken Slavic language’’. She said the polish communities could be found around the globe, including English speaking countries like the UK, Australia and Canada. (NAN)(www.nanews.ng) ============ Edited by Grace Yussuf