By Philomina Attah The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Defence, Dr Ibrahim Kana, says President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration will continue to give prominence to the use of technology in fighting crimes. Kana said this at the inauguration of completed projects and launching of Telemetry magazine at the Defence Space Administration (DSA) in Abuja. “I must state that this administration is now well positioned and ready to take on the task which has become very relevant, given the wide issue of security challenges facing the country. “The use of technology in fighting crime will continue to give more prominence within the entire Nigeria security architecture, considering the volatile and complex war which the country is facing today. “In this regard, this administration’s effort has contributed to victory being recorded in various theatres of operations across the country,” he said. According to him, the projects commissioning are critical infrastructure that will further enhance the capacity of the administration to effectively carry out its statutory mandates. He said the DSA was established with the aim of coordinating and exploring Nigeria’s space to enhance military and paramilitary operations. He enjoined the Chief of DSA and his team to double their efforts towards supporting the accomplishment of President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive to bringing an end to insecurity in the country. He said this will ensure peaceful conduct of the 2023 general elections and safe handover to the next administration. “I hope this success will be maintained and sustained while I look forward to seeing the DSA growing from strength to strength in supporting the country’s strive to end insecurity in the country.” The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Lucky Irabor, said there was no doubt that the DSA holds greater goal for the Armed Forces and the nation at large. He added that the intention of the founding fathers for the establishment of the DSA was quite laudable and “that speaks to the great expectations that everyone is actually placing on you.” He stated his commitment to do everything possible to support the administration and to ensure that the outcome of all their engagement would bring good use. He assured the administration that the Defence headquarters was always ready to provide assistance and necessary resources required to be able to achieve its objective. He promised that the Ministry would go to every length in doing so. “I’m happy the Permanent Secretary who has done so well is also here.” On his part, the Chief of DSA, Rear Admiral Nnamdi Muogilim, appreciated the Federal Government for all its support to the DSA. He said the projects was initiated upon his resumption in office about a year ago, adding that this would contribute to the operations of the administration. “The completed projects today is because of the effort and dedication of the entire staff of this administration and the commitment of the Armed Forces of Nigeria for capacity development in the domain of cyber space which the DSA represents. “These facilities will provide more conducive atmosphere for work and research for staff of the administration and other researchers that might want to use it in furtherance of space science and technology in the country. “The DSA, under my leadership in the past 12 months, conducted local training for staff to develop capacity on how to handle these facilities effectively. “I believe there won’t be any staff deficit. Though, training is continued. We will not rest on that. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that some of the facilities commissioned were, Multipurpose building, Cybersecurity, Laboratory, Geospartial intelligence fusion/data centre, Ambulance, and fire truck bay, Automatic fire hydrant, and security outpost. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Vincent Obi