By Sumaila Ogbaje The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Lucky Irabor on Friday in Abuja, teed off golf kitty tournament to mark the 2023 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration. Irabor, represented by the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, said the tournament was organised in partnership with the Nigeria Golf Federation (NGF) to celebrate the retired and fallen heroes. He said the event was significant in remembering the nation’s fallen heroes who had paid the supreme price for defending Nigeria and those still alive who gave their best in service to the nation. He said that there were other sporting activities organised to mark the day, adding that it was the first time the armed force would partner with NGF to organise a golf tournament. He said that apart from golf, many other sport activities were also lined up for the occasion. Also, Otumba Olusegun Runsewe, the President of NGF and Director-General, National Centre for Arts and Culture (NCAC), commended the CDS for approving the partnership for the tournament. Runsewe said there was the need to celebrate those that laid down their lives for the peace and unity of Nigeria. He said that Nigeria had moved to the next level of golf development in line with international standard. According to him, the International Standard is that any measure on a golf course must be branded. “So, I’m happy to show you that if you go on the course now every measure has this international standard. “We have 250 Pro golfers from professionals, amateurs, women among others, and it is an 18 hole golf course. “I want to assure you that with this partnership, we are going to open more windows in Nigeria,” he said. Similarly, the Director, Defence Information, Maj.-Gen. Jimmy Akpor, said the tournament was organised to honour the fallen heroes who had paid the supreme price to keep Nigeria together. Akpor said that there were living veterans as well as those who bore the scars of war and operations and the handicapped. He said that the sporting activities were about building consciousness of the military and supporting them to continue to be the pride of the nation. “So, while we are here doing this golf kitty, we also have those who are injured who are also playing a game at the National Stadium as we speak. “They are playing the Citizen sitting volleyball and Wheelchair basketball,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)reports that the injured and soldiers living with disability known as Invictus team played citizens sitting volleyball match with the FCT team at the indoor arena of the National Stadium. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) OYS/DOE/IAA ========= Edited by Dianabasi Effiong/Isaac Aregbesola