By Stellamaris Ashinze and Okuawan Offiong Lagos State  Government  (LASG) says the unveiling of 5G network by MAFAB Communications Limited will  bring Lagos closer to achieving its Smart City dream. The state Governor,  Mr Babajide  Sanwo-Olu,  said this at the unveiling of the network on Thursday in Lagos. The governor said the inauguration was a  milestone in the  nation’s technology and telecommunications journey. Sanwo-Olu  was represented at the event by the Commissioner for  Science and Technology,  Mr  Hakeem  Fahm. The News Agency of Nigeria  (NAN) reports that MAFAB earlier in the week launched the 5G network  and its logo in Abuja. According to Sanwo-Olu, the state government sincerely commends the Chairman of Althani Group of which MAFAB is a subsidiary, and the organisers of the event for the epoch making event  which ushers in a new age of technology. ‘’Though 5G network is relatively new in the telecommunications industry, MAFAB Communications Limited has recorded a milestone achievement in the tech space through the launch of the 5G Network. ‘’I want to commend the management of MAFAB Communications for working hard to deliver this next level technology that out guns the 4G network by a very wide margin,’’ he said. According to him, It is a fact that the contribution of the telecommunications industry has been a significant economic driver for Lagos State in particular and Nigeria as a whole. The governor  said that the telecommunications  industry  had contributed more than $70 billion to the economy and helped to create over half a million jobs. He said that the prospects of what could be  accomplished with the 5G network, which is next level technology, filled him with high hopes. ‘’As we unveil your new logo, I want to wish you success in your operations and assure you of our firm commitment to the entrenchment of technology in every facet of our economy,’’ he said. In his welcome address,  Chairman and  Founder, MAFAB  Communications Limited,  Dr Musbahu  Bashir said  that    on Tuesday the company made history with the launch of its 5G Network in the Federal Capital Territory. Bashir said that it was logical  that the next stop should be Lagos. He said that Lagos was not just the commercial nerve centre of Nigeria, but also a prime destination for tourism, sports, entertainment and culture. According to him, the future is now even brighter with more exciting prospects and possibilities with the digital play of Mcom 5G Network. He said that Mcom 5G launch marked the beginning of immense opportunities for the country to achieve infinite possibilities with a purpose of enabling connectivity for a digital future. MAFAB  chairman  said that as the second operator to launch 5G in Nigeria, Mcom expected more coverage for Nigerians and acceleration of broadband services. The Executive Vice Chairman,  Nigeria  Communication Commission,  Prof. Umar Danbatta,  said that Nigeria had articulated policy objectives for nationwide deployment of new generation 5G network and services. The EVC was represented  by Mr Adeleke Adeolu,  Executive  Commissioner,  Stakeholders  Management. Danbatta said that the objectives were based on the realisation that pervasive access to fifth generation technologies would enhance connectivity for individuals and for businesses. According to him,  It will help to improve healthcare services, support inclusive education, foster the development of smart cities, boost agriculture, and generally catalyse overall economic efficiency of our generation.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)   Edited by Joe Idika