By Stellamaris Ashinze Cranium Integrated Solutions Ltd. has  introduced a local content digital health app to ease the stress of patient healthcare delivery in the country. Mr  Kunle  Adesida, an Engineer and Co-founder of Cranium  Integrated Solutions Ltd., said  at a news conference in Lagos that the all encompassing  local content  digital health app  would address the health needs even to the rural areas. Adesida said the adoption of digital health was low globally but proper sensitisation of the benefits would  ease  the challenge of healtcare delivery. He said that even with the issue of  low internet penetration at the digitally under- served areas, Cranium would deliver health  with its mobile clinics to be introduced  soon. According  to him, it  is a  local content, because it is 100 per cent customisable  to the desire and requirements of the nation’s health facilities. “The COVID-19  pandemic heightened the need for digitalisation, again, many people started seeing the need to go into this particular area, we have been in this area since 2005. ‘’It took us so many years to put this product together because we needed to ensure that we put in the real case scenario on ground and that is why it is local content. “Cranium has different levels of health facilities across Nigeria, primary health care centres,  private hospitals, secondary and tertiary institutions,” he said. Adesida said that  so much effort was put on the field to ensure the entire patient workflow in any hospital and that was why they had an edge over others. The co-founder  said that with the app, a patient’s vitals could be monitored from the comfort  of their homes. He said the local content had also made it very possible for hospitals to customise to their desires and helped them have full access privileges to the database. According  to him, Cranium is leveraging  blockchain and Artificial Intelligence  that enables patients access health care and data in  any locations or hospital the patient  walks  into. The co-founder  emphasised  that there was need to talk to stakeholders  and decision makers on digitisation  of hospitals because very soon,  hospitals operating manually  would go into extinction. According to him, digitisation  of hospital  processes would also improve health  care because patients would access  healthcare from the comfort of their  homes. Also speaking, Mr Tokunbo Smith, Chairman, Supervising Board,  Cranium  Integrated Solution, said that the firm was also particular  about securing the data of patients. Smith said that for the security  patients data,  there was the data protection regulation which Cranium  strictly  adhered to because  its compliance remains key in every industry. According  to him, that is  why the firm has the data protection regulation and the European General Data Protection Regulation. He said:  “When talking about health, we are talking about sensitive data, data that should not be seen by anybody. So the advantage of using software is that it is efficient and secure.” Mr Doyin Talabi,  a Consultant , lauded the mobile app,  saying that it would deliver swift health  care to more that half of the nation’s population. Talabi said that according  to Nigeria  Communication Commission, there were  about 150 subscribers, so as such,  more than half of the population would have access to safe and secure health care delivery. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Cranium is a limited liability company  that has designed a  local content  digital health  solution that serves the need of people, granted patent right by the Nigeria  Communication Commission  and Licensed  by  the Federal Government. (NAN)   Edited by Chioma Ugboma