By Sumaila Ogbaje A civil society group, South-East Coalition for Sustainable Development (SECSD) has commended the Armed Forces of Nigeria over its non-kinetic approach towards peace and stability in the region. This is contained in a statement by President of SECSD, Onu Ikenna and Secretary, Uchechi Mgbidi, on Monday in Abuja. The group said the military had embarked on school rehabilitation projects, improvement of laboratories in schools, provision of portable water and other non-kinetic measures in the region. They said it was a promise kept by the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Lucky Irabor, to ensure Nigerians had peace, adding that the initiative should be appreciated by the people of the South East region. They lamented that recent activities of enemies of the region had affected socio-economic development, hence the need for a rethink. The group urged the youth to eschew all forms of violence, saying that development could not thrive where there is disorder. They also urged the people of the region to cooperate with the armed forces to deescalate the violence and wanton killings going on in the region. According to them, on assumption of office, the Chief of Defence Staff promised to use all available means for peace to reign in the country. “We are grateful that the Armed Forces under him have gone ahead in the the implementation of activities aimed at having the people of the region live in peace. “We plead with our people to support the military as the development strides associated with the Igbos is being eroded by the activities of a few. “We cannot continue in this violence and wanton killings that is beginning to make us look like cannibals. “We also welcome the promise by the CDS that the military and other security agencies will not tolerate any threat to the 2023 general elections. “This is the time for our people to speak on who to govern their affairs. They must not be denied that right,” the group said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Isaac Aregbesola