By Victor Okoye The Initiator and founder of Mark ‘D’ Basketball Championship, Igoche Mark has restated his commitment towards the growth and development of grassroots basketball in the country in 2023. Mark who stated this in his new year message on Sunday in Abuja, said that the Mark ‘D’ Ball brand had contributed so much to game of basketball in the country. He said that basketball competition had indeed helped resurrect the moribund state of domestic basketball in the country. Mark said the brand and its affiliations have continued to contribute to the sustainable development of basketball at the grassroots. He noted that the brand’s little impact in the game of basketball in 2022 was as a result of partnership with stakeholders; players, coaches among others. He said that the brand will continue to contribute its own little quota in spite of all the challenges. “Although, the year was one with bags of mixed feelings, as our doodle attempt to get the ball bouncing was fought with great resistance by the enemies of the game, alongside state actors. “These enemies ensured that the D’Tigress became the biggest porn in the year 2022, while feeding fat on their bonuses and allowances. “`They succeeded by denying our ladies the chance to participate at the FIBA Women’s World Cup in Sidney, Australia. “In spite all these glitches, our sterling reputation remained the same; as our resolve is to become a tricky pony in the slam and dunk game in the year 2023 and beyond. “We are on course to achieve greatness in the new year for the sport we love so much, in spite of their proclivity to always stunt the growth of the domestic game because of greed,” he said. He said that the 2023 edition of the Mark ‘D’ Ball Basketball Championship promises to be the best ever. Mark said that plans are ongoing to ensure that this year’s edition surpasses the previous tournaments. This he said include quality, welfare of players, coaches and officials, number of participating teams as well as the competition’s prize money. “Let me use this medium to inform all stakeholders that 2023 edition of Mark ‘D’ Ball Basketball Championship will become a reference point in Africa, as we will soon let the cat out of the bag. “This is wishing you a new year filled with possibilities. May the new year bring you more happiness, success, love, and blessings,” he said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========== Edited by Joseph Edeh