By Victor Nwachukwu The Commander, 34 Artillery Brigade of the Nigerian Army in Obinze, Owerri, Brig.- Gen. Sani Sulaiman, has described sports as critical to the intellectual development of students. The Commander said this on Friday at the 2023 Inter-house Sports competition of the Army Day Secondary School, Obinze. Sulaiman said that sports had a role to play in helping individuals to discover and develop their God-given talents. He said: “Sports has a special place in the development of individuals. “It exposes you to opportunities that will help you discover your talents and aids intellectual development as it stimulates mental awareness. “I want to urge you to try to identify your talents, using this opportunity so that beyond classroom work, you can be more useful to yourselves, families and Nigeria at large,” he told the students. Sulaiman commended the school for organising the event. In a speech, the Principal for Senior Secondary, Mrs Chigozirim Echefu, said that world champions could be discovered through secondary school sports. Echefu advised the students to take the annual event seriously. She thanked Sulaiman for his logistics and other forms of support to the school. She cited the renovation of classroom blocks, provision of white boards, a water borehole as well as volleyball and basketball courts for the school. Also, the Principal for Junior Secondary, Mr Thompson Amadi, said that sports was necessary to turn possible social vices into virtues. Amadi said that society becomes virtuous and safer as students get more productive in their academic activities. Highpoint of the event was the launch of the school’s brochure, entitled “The Champion Within”, by the Director of Sports, Imo Secondary Education Management Board, Mrs Dorathy Ajoku. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Yellow House emerged the overall winners of the competition with five gold, four silver and four bronze medals. Blue House came second with five gold, three silver and three bronze. The students competed in junior and senior categories of 100m, 200m, 1×400m, Egg and Sack races, amongst others. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========== Edited by Sam Oditah