By Taiye Olayemi The Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN) in partnership with Medicard Health Management and Universal Insurance on Monday re-launched a health management and insurance scheme for its members. Emeka Rollas, National President, AGN, during the launch of the health insurance scheme in Lagos, emphasised the need for actors to take their health seriously. “The issue of health and wellness of members is very key to this administration because health is the most important aspect of our life. “There is nothing more important than health for any human being, this fact made us to introduce special retail health management scheme with Medicard Ltd., in the year 2020. “We have so far enrolled some indigent members on the scheme through the support of the Chairman of the Board of National Patrons, Rt. Hon. Ned Nwoko in 2021 and ROK TV. “We are relaunching this scheme for the benefit of our members. “We are also in partnership with Universal Insurance, providing group on-set cover for members in cases of emergency,” he said. Rollas noted that other juicy welfare packages had also been put in place for members. He said it was so discouraging to note the apathy and lackadaisical attitude guild members had shown toward welfare packages including their health issues. He said  that in view of this, the guild had designed a week-long health and wellness sensitisation programme aimed at creating awareness to enable members enrol on the health management scheme and insurance policy. He said Feb. 11  had been slated for a health walk and free medical check-up at Teslim Balogun Stadium from 7a.m. to 5p.m. According to him, this will also feature health management and insurance renewals, lectures, healthy and complete diet tutorials. “This is to help make healthy life style a priority,” he said. Earlier, Mr Paulinus Offor, Executive Director, Technical, Universal Insurance, noted that actors trully need to enrol in an insurance scheme, considering the occupational hazard they are  consistently exposed to on movie locations. “Coming on board will make you have access to compensations as you are exposed to hazards, so we are partnering with AGN for a long time,” he said. Also, Mr Ezekiel Eseagwu, Executive Director, Medicard Nigeria, while explaining  the modalities of the health management scheme, said each actor would be registered on the scheme at a subsidised fee. Eseagwu noted that this would guide against the situation whereby actors continue to depend on public donations whenever they have health challenges. “We are partnering with AGN to give actors the opportunity to come on board while we have subsidised the rate. “You will have access to over 100 hospitals because we have considered the way you move from one location to the other,” he said. (NAN) (nannews.ng) Edited by Folasade Adeniran