By Fabian Ekeruche/Florence Onuegbu Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has promised to increase salaries and allowances of members of  staff of the Lagos State Waste Managers, particularly the street sweepers. Sanwo-Olu made the promise in Lagos on Thursday, during the Association of Waste Managers of Nigeria (AWAMN) Mega Rally to support the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Candidate, Sen. Bola Tinubu and his  reelection bid. He said  his administration remained committed to the welfare of those that were ensuring cleaner city and secured environment. According to him, the support by waste managers becomes imperative as Tinubu is the brain behind the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) which many states in Nigeria have replicated. He said the election of Tinubu at the federal level would raise the bar of more commitment to the environment and enable economic growth through the sector. The governor urged everyone to vote immensely for APC candidates throughout the country to galvanise development across levels. Deputy Gov. Obafemi Hamzat, appreciated the waste managers for their support, urging them to vote for Tinubu, as he had track records. Hamzat also called on the waste managers to vote wisely and ensure they picked up their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs)  ahead of the February general elections. In his goodwill message, the Managing Director, LAWMA, Mr Ibrahim Odumboni, said  the rally was an opportunity for the waste managers to appreciate Tinubu. Odumboni said that what had become AWAMN today had its foundation solidly laid by the APC presidential candidate many years ago. He said that since one good turn deserved another, it was only worthwhile that the association mobilised its personnel in hundreds and thousands for APC’s victory in February elections. ”Today, we cannot effectively discuss waste management in Lagos state without mentioning PSP and AWAMN. Since a stream will not forget its source, we use this opportunity to thank our Jagaban for the legacy of a lasting waste management structure for Lagos state. ”Very importantly, I commend AWAMN, its executive and the teeming PSP personnel in attendance here, demonstrating a massive show of support for our leader’s presidential ambition, and the reelection bid of our performing governor  and hisdeputy. ”I must specifically note that, while this mobilisation is very encouraging, we must equally translate the massive support to electoral votes on election day. This is the only way to truly appreciate and help actualise the worthy ambitions of our leader, as well as our governor. ”If all of us here today can cast our ballots for the tickets of Tinubu/Shettima and Sanwo-Olu/Hamzat; and for other APC candidates, you know what that means in number. ”Therefore, let us actualise their ambitions by actually voting. For those who are yet to collect their PVCs, the opportunity is still open. Ensure you collect yours to ensure victory for our leader, our governor and other APC candidates,” he said. In his welcome address, the AWAMN President, Dr David Oriyomi, said that in 1999 when Tinubu became the governor of Lagos state, he inherited a state which was overcome with waste, and was labeled one of the dirtest in the world. Oriyomi said that Tinubu had the option of bringing a foreign company to manage the waste in Lagos, but chose to empower the people with his famous quotes – ”If our people cannot clear their cities, what can they do?”. He said that Tinubu nurtured and empowered the waste managers through the small-medium business model, and successive governments had built the solid foundation. According to him, Lagos was transformed and received numerous accolades as one of the cleanest states in Nigeria and Africa. ”When our livelihood came under attack and 350 businesses were faced with the risk of bankruptcy, Asiwaju came to our rescue by speaking out for us and hereby, securing our livelihood. ”Today, the small business model established by Asiwaju has been replicated in over nine states in Nigeria and other West African countries. ”It is for this reason, we as an association is fully and wholly committed to voting and campaigning for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the next president of Nigeria. ”To our amiable governor, we recall that we were the first organisation that endorsed his candidature in 2018. We are pleased that he has proven us right by the great work that he has done in the state and for the environment,” he said. The AWAMN president also said the people would recall that Tinubu inherited heap of waste across the state, and started by declaring a state of emergency and backed it up with action, leaving Lagos better than what he inherited. ”Now, under his leadership, waste is seen as  resources and we are humble to be his foot soldiers to making circular economy a reality. We are committed to a Greater Lagos Rising!,” he said. The waste managers’ boss promised that the members would embark on a door-to-door campaign, as they had the reach to every nook and cranny of the state they operated in. He pledged to secure 10 million votes for the association’s grand patron, Tinubu and Shettima and also two million votes for Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat. Also, the APC Chairman, Lagos State Chapter, Mr Cornelius Ojelabi, urged the waste managers to vote massively for Tinubu for laying the foundation for a solid Lagos. ”Vote for him to become president. Collect your PVCs, tell others to go and collect their PVCs so that we can vote for Tinubu and Sanwo-Olu,” Ojelabi said. Dignataries who attended the rally included Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr Tunji Bello; Mr Joe Igbokwe, the Special Adviser on  Drainage and Water Resources to Sanwo-Olu and the Ogun Commissioner for Environment, Mr Ola Oresanya. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)   Edited by Chinyere Bassey/Chioma Ugboma