By Aderogba George The Management and Editorial Board of Flowerbudnews have felicitated Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye on her re-appointment as the Director-General of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). A statement by the Publisher of the news outlet, Alhaji Biola Lawal in Abuja on Tuesday stated that the re-appointment of Adeyeye was a well-deserved gesture. The statement reported flowerbudnews management as urging the NAFDAC D-G to redouble efforts to surpass her first term tenure in office. According to the statement, the re-appointment is a great testimony to the commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari to bestow a legacy of excellence in service delivery to the country. It stated that the re-appointment showed the President’s faithful appreciation of excellence and dedicated performance by his political appointees. The statement disclosed that the appointment would definitely encourage more Nigerians to work hard for the country and would strengthen dedicated political office holders to give their best in nation-building. It said the re-appointment would bring the best for the country, not minding intrigues and run-him-down syndrome often displayed by some unpatriotic Nigerians. “Your incredible achievements in the past five years raised hope of a bright future for our country. “It signals that with dedication, love for Nigeria and unyielding resolve to do it right, our country can, and will be great, through indelible examples of achievements and performance like you have set in NAFDAC in the past five years. “As Media Professionals, we noted your all-round achievements to include the return of NAFDAC operatives to the nation’s ports of entry after years of absence, an absence which was logically heavily detrimental to public health. “Your moving Nigeria high up in the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) ranking, earning the nation the enviable status of a vaccine production capable nation and others have been remarkable. “We urge you to redouble your efforts in strengthening NAFDAC’s ability, capacity and resolve to protect the health of Nigerians. “We wish you a successful and remarkable second tenure. May God continue to be with you ma,” the statement said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Idris Abdulrahman