By Grace Alegba A former Ogun Governor, Chief Olusegun Osoba, and Rev. Mother Esther Ajayi, Founder, Love of Christ Generation Church C&S, will inaugurate the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Lagos State Council Secretariat on Saturday, Jan. 28.   The project began about four years ago by the previous administration, has  been completed and is ready to be put to use immediately after the inauguration, courtesy of Rev. Mother Ajayi.   The completion of the project is a testimony to the maxim that government is a continuum as exemplified by the Adeleye Ajayi-led Lagos NUJ Executive Council, a statement on Thursday by the Chairman, Iyalla Secretariat Building Committee, Mrs Adenike Sodipo.   She expressed her appreciation to Rev. Mother Ajayi and the Lagos State Government for making the remodelling dream a reality.   “Lagos NUJ has shown that government is a continuum because as a country we were used to seeing a project becoming abandoned after the originator of the project left office.   “This secretariat remodeling completion is a symbol of progress in our union and it is to say to the world that notwithstanding our challenges as journalists, we deserve the best of life,” Sodipo said.   The Chairman of the council, Mr Adeleye Ajayi, commended his predecessor, Dr Qasim Akinreti for starting the project, saying its completion during his own administration symbolised unity in the union.   “Our Lagos Council is a progressive and united council. We are inaugurating the remodelled building to the glory of God and for the comfort of journalists who deserve the best.   “With this befitting edifice, every journalist can beat his or her chest because we now have something to be proud of, ” he said.   The chairman also commended the executive administration of Mrs Funke Fadugba, for her foresight in acquiring the original one-storey building for Lagos journalists two decades ago.   He recalled that the Fadugba-led Lagos NUJ Executive members bought the one-storey building between 2002-2005, and it served as a secretariat for the Council till it was remodeled.   “From the one-storey building bought by our great leader, Mrs Funke Fadugba has come this two-storey state-of-the-art building that will be inaugurated on Saturday,” he said.   Ajayi listed facilities in the building to include an ICT centre, conference hall, offices and an open space for social gathering.   The secretariat is also fitted with a 24-hour wireless internet as well as a workstation for journalists willing to write their daily reports and send to their offices.   The high point of the day will be the conferment of Grand Matron Award on Rev. Mother Ajayi, who helped in the completion of the building, and for her service to humanity. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)     Edited by Oluwole Sogunle