By Sylvester Thompson Mrs Monilola Udoh, Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation(STI), has urged investors to invest and help commercialise a pencil produced Projects Development Institute (PRODA), Enugu. The Permanent Secretary spoke at the ongoing 2023 Techno expo in Abuja on Wednesday. She said PRODA was breaking grounds in research and innovation with a typical example of producing pencils that Nigeria imports. “We need to come together and support PRODA to take the technology to every nook and cranny of Nigeria. ” If we produce enough pencils for all our children, we don’t need another market because the market is right here. ” Nigeria is the most blessed county in the world, let’s come together and do the right thing and it will be well with all of us,” she said. Dr Peter Ogbobe, Director-General of PRODA, said that it had been established that STI was the only way out for the growth and stability of Nigeria. He said that the institute remained one of the leading research institute in the country since its creation in 1971. Ogbobe said: ”PRODA’s numerous achievements were consciously or unconsciously geared towards the diversification of the economy.” According to the D-G, PRODA’s engagement in innumerable demand-driven researches over the last 40 years had led to innovative breakthroughs and left tremendous impact on diverse sectors of the economy. He said this was through agro-allied, construction, chemical, energy, metallurgical, electrical/electronic, automative and ceramics, among others, which are ready for commercialisation. Ogbobe listed some of these research breakthroughs to include: Design and production of Soya bean flour processing flow line, design and production of plantain flour processing flow line. He mentioned design and production of PRODA school pencil, design and production of pin and shackle Electrical Porcelain Insulator, which is relevant to the energy sector. He also spoke about design and production of Ceramic multi-Biomas cooking stove for domestic purpose and other alternative sources of cooking. The D-G listed various other research breakthroughs that were ready for commercialisatiion as well as collaborations and linkages PRODA has.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) Edited by Bashir Rabe Mani