By Adeyemi Adeleye The People’s Democratic Party(PDP) in Mainland Local Government of Lagos State on Tuesday inaugurated a 16-member campaign committee for the party’s Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. The party’s chairman in the local government, Mr Adelabi Malomo, while inaugurating the committee at the LG PDP Secretariat, charged members to ensure victory for the party in the forthcoming general elections. Malomo named Mr Folabi Alimi as the Local Government Coordinator, while Prince Segun Gbayi, the party’s House of Representatives’ candidate for Mainland federal constituency is the Assistant Coordinator. According to him, since the party has the national and state presidential campaign council (PCC), there is the need to inaugurate such committee in the LG to enhance electoral victory for the party. He called on the committee to swing into action, hold stakeholders’ meetings and inaugurate such committee at the ward and polling unit levels. The chairman said: “Let us go back to our polling booths, we are managers there; we should deliver our polling units to PDP. “Everybody is important. Those of us who are at the LGA PCC Committee should not think we are better than those who will be at the wards and polling units.” Malomo listed other committee’s members to include Mr Kehinde Osinowo (Deputy Assistant Coordinator), Mr Alli Ibrahim (Publicity Chief), Mr Ola Alimu (Field Operations) and Mrs Patricia Archibong (Women Mobiliser). Other are Mr Oudus Oridedi (Youth Mobiliser), Mr Anthony Edward (Finance), Mr Motayo Ojoye (Religion Affairs-Muslims), Pastor Femi Olubolade (Religion-Christiians), Ganiu Ibrahim (Religion-Culture) The rest are Mr Peter Okunomo (Security), Mr Bayo Olukoga (Research/Strategy), Mr Dayo Osifeso (ICT/Control Room), Mr Paul Ogunnubi (Support Groups) and Mr Jelili Shodipo (Volunteer Group). He noted that all members of PCC both at the national and state levels, were automatic members of the committee In his acceptance speech, Alimi said that there was a huge task ahead for the committee to deliver for PDP. While calling for unity of purpose, Alimi said: “I am assuring you that we shall not leave anybody behind. “Let us move out to spread the gospel and reconcile with those we have disagreement with.” (NAN) (www.nannew.ng) ======== Edited by Tayo Ikujuni