By Edeki Igafe The President/Chairman of Tompolo Foundation, Mr Government Ekpemupolo popularly called Tompolo, has donated 458 single seater desks to the Nigerian Maritime University in Delta. The Executive Secretary of the Foundation, Dr Paul Bebenimibo, announced the donation on Saturday during the institution’s combined matriculation ceremony for the 2019/2020, 2020/2021 and 2021/2022 academic sessions. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the University is located at Okerenkoko, Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta. Bebenimibo said that Tompolo was a strategic partner with the university, adding that he was putting measures in place to enable the institution to compete well with other world-class universities. “Tompolo Foundation is presenting 458 single desks (furniture) worth millions of Naira to the NMU,” he said. Responding, Prof. Emmanuel Adigio, the Vice Chancellor of the NMU, thanked Tompolo for the donation, noting that the gesture was a demonstration of his desire to educate his people. “Tompolo contributes a lot to resolving all our challenges in the university. A lot of our chairs were brought in by him. A structure will be completed soon by him in the university,” Adigio said. While thanking Tompolo for the good gesture, Adigio said that all the 13 academic programmes of the institution had been accredited. He added that the pioneer graduates of the university were currently undergoing the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). The vice chancellor urged the cadets to take their studies seriously and be determined to overcome challenges that could arise in the course of their studies. “You should be guided by the reality that the time spent in this first paramilitary University in the country is the springboard to greater life hereafter. “On this note, let me congratulate our matriculating cadets. You are indeed our seed planted with the expectation to flourish. “We have made great preparations to plant you. We have employed, as our teachers, very capable scholars most of whom made first class and second class upper division in their first degree courses. “A number of them already have advanced degrees. This is something we owe you. “The government that founded the University considers you very important and has granted you this privilege. “We pledge before you and your parents that we will not fail to give you the best. “Please do not fail to touch the sky and beyond. It is my earnest desire that you all keep the sail steadily going throughout the university waterways,” Adigio said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) =========== Edited by Idris Abdulrahman