By Jacinta Nwachukwu Some stakeholders in education sector have urged parents to allow their children pass through all the academic stages as stipulated in the education policies instead of skipping classes. They expressed this concern on Monday, in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. They said students who skipped classes were most times slaves to their emotions, being not mature for the challenges ahead. According to them, education is the bedrock of development and for any meaningful development to take place a person has to pass through some stages of development both physically, mentally and psychologically. Mr Pius Godwin, the Principal of Kings’ Kids International School, Gwagwalada, frowned at the rate JSS 2 and SS2 students enroll for Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) and Senior Secondary Certificate Examinations (SSCE). “We are in an era, where students are in a rush to graduate from school as soon as possible without putting into considerations, first their mental and academic development,” he said. He said that parents were part of the problems, adding that parents of such student always come up with excuses that favour them not minding the consequences on their children. According to him, when a child is pushed above his or her class, such student may not be able to stand academically to defend the certificate. “He or she may not be able to solve problems that involve intellect in the place of work and may not be able to make meaningful contributions in policies that concern education. “Also, such an individual may not be able to teach others; he or she will be unemployable in any institution whether government or private sector. “Equally, he or she may not be able to replicate who they are in any sector they found themselves not minding the implications,” he said. The principal further said that psychologically, such students might exhibit arrogance and rudeness when they failed to carry out an assignment perfectly after graduation. He said that the most annoying aspect was that this might extend to even their next generations. He, therefore, encouraged parents to allow their wards pass through all the academic stages as stipulated in the education policies. Similarly, Mr Haruna Idachaba, a father of three said that some parents took pride on their wards or children’s capability above their mates; hence they encouraged them to skip classes. Idachaba noted that allowing a child to skip his or her class might cause more harm than good for that child in future. He said that for the sake of academic development of that child parents should allow their children to go through all the academic processes. Also, Dr Olatunji Jekayinfa said schools might allow students to sit for external examinations such as BECE and SSCE in JSS2 and SSS2 to assess the readiness of the students and their level of preparedness ahead final year. Jekayinfa, who is a Research Fellow at the National Mathematical Centre, said students who happened to come brilliantly well at the penultimate year should be made to stay back to write again at the final year. According to him, this is because students at the penultimate year most times, although academically sound may not be emotionally and physically mature. “And, ready for the next level of their education if they are allowed to skip the final year class. He said that in spite of the child’s academic brilliance such student tend to be easily influenced negatively by their older colleagues. According to him, due to their tenderness and age disparity among their colleagues, such a student is more vulnerable to vices associated with adolescence. “The school system ultimately should produce rounded graduates who are sound academically and are morally and emotionally matured. “This may be a far cry if students are allowed to skip vital and important classes just because they are successful in their external examinations at the penultimate class. “The disadvantages are too enormous to waive aside,” he said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========== Edited by Ben Ezuwu/Isaac Aregbesola