By Constance Athekame Stakeholders in the nation’s energy sector gathered in Abuja on Tuesday to brainstorm on ways of improving the energy transition plan, using green hydrogen to boost power supply.   It was organised by German Government, African Network for Solar Energy and Renewable Energy and Energy Sufficiency Association (REEEA) with a workshop on Nigerian Perspective of a Hydrogen Partnership with Germany.   The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that hydrogen if produced from renewable power sources is climate-friendly.   This is due to its ability to be transported over long distances and storable over long period of time.     Ms Gina Lagunes, Head, German–Nigeria Hydrogen Office said that German Government was dialoguing with Nigeria’s Government, the public and private sectors as well as academia to develop an enabling framework for hydrogen.   Lagunes said that one of the achievements of the German Government was that it was in the process of finalising a study on policy regulation framework for hydrogen in Nigeria that would include energy development.       “We are carrying out hydrogen potential for the country and we are working also on establishing a working group on development of national hydrogen strategy, ’’she said.       On his part, Prof. Daniel Egbe, President African Network for Solar Energy, said there was an existing partnership between Germany and Nigeria in green hydrogen area.       Egbe said that the workshop was also organised to seek the opinions of Nigerians as the German parliament directed.       “The opinion of the man in street is very important that is why we have people from different sector gathered together to brainstorm on the perspective of green hydrogen.       “We have stakeholders from civil society group, industry players, government to voice their opinion on Nigeria and German green hydrogen partnership,’’ he said.       According to him, the goal of the workshop is to equally develop recommendations for actions for international green hydrogen partnership.       “It aims to promote understanding of the perspectives of these potential hydrogen exporting countries by discussing and exchanging with stakeholders through an online survey and stakeholders workshops.       “If we have to interact or corporate, it should be a win-win situation for everyone on the street of Nigeria to voice their opinion on any aspect that concerns them,’’ he said.       On his part, Prof. Magnus Onuoha, National Vice Chairman, REEEA, described green hydrogen as an emerging technology important to serve as a critical component in Nigeria’s energy transition.       Onuoha said that the workshop was to build capacity and educate people on the partnership between Germany and Nigeria so as to bring about active participation.       According to him, the job opportunities in green hydrogen are huge and important that Nigeria keys in by providing enabling environment and right policies.       “When we are sure that the right policies are in place and an enabling environment to drive the policies by 2030, you will be amazed what the green hydrogen will be contributing into the Nigeria’s energy transition plan, ’’ he said.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)   Edited by Kabir Muhammad/Julius Toba-Jegede