By Maureen Okon Nine Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Kogi East Senatorial District have thrown their weight behind the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his running mate, Sen. Kashim Shettima. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the LGAs on Sunday organised a mega rally in support of the candidature of the duo and show support to the APC. NAN also reports that the mega rally was organised by Mr Suleiman Isyaka, the National Coordinator of an umbrella APC support group, ‘Tinubu/Shettima Ordained Movement’. NAN further reports that a mammoth crowd of APC supporters attended the event and recommitted themselves to ensuring the victory of Tinubu and Shettima during the Feb. 25 presidential poll. The event which held in Ejule in Ofu LGA also attracted APC supporters from Ankpa. Olamaboro,Idah, Ofu, Ibaji, Dekina, Omala, Bassa and Igalamela/Odolu LGAs. Speaking to NAN, Isyaka said that the event tallied with the APC’s foundation which involved the actualisation of the Tinubu/Shettima ambition to win the 2023 presidential election. “The purpose of everyone being here today as part of the activities lined up to secure a landslide victory for Tinubu and Shettima in the presidential poll. “As at Dec. 30, 2022 when I was confirmed as the chairman of one of the strong support groups of the Tinubu/Shettima presidential candidacy, i came to my village in Ejule-Alle ward and swung into action. “On that day, we had a lot of people who came for the occasion and they were very ready to support the APC at all levels. “That proved to me that when i am out with the APC existing structure in my locality, I can replicate it to the other LGAs in the Eastern Senatorial District of Kogi. “Also, our mission is to sensitise and to generate votes for our presidential candidate come Feb. 25,” he said. Isyaka also urged all the members and the people of the nine LGAs to collect their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs), so that they can exercise their rights at the polls for the presidential candidate of the APC. Mr Yahaya Shagari, the APC Chairman in Ofu LGA commended Isyaka for organising the laudable event by uniting all the party loyalists in Kogi East Senatorial District. He added that the act displayed by Isyaka showed that APC was in the right direction in bringing all the nine LGAs in Igala land together to support the Tinubu/Shettima Ordained Movement. What is on the ground shows that we are waiting eagerly for the general election to cast our votes for our presidential candidate and his running mate,” Shagari said. Also speaking, the Director-General of the Amalgamated APC Support Group (AASG), Dr Nasiru Mohammed lauded the organiser of the event for putting together the laudable initiative. Mohammed, who was represented by Mr Musa Otigba, the Director, Campaign and Mobilisation for AASG said: “A vote for Tinubu/Shettima is a vote for a renewed hope for you and future generation. “It is remarkable to note that the Tinubu/Shettima Ordained Movement is already a registered member of the AASG and that is why we are here to give you moral support. “We are also here to encourage you to continue to do more for the victory of our party at all levels come 2023 general elections,” he said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) =============== Edited by Bashir Rabe Mani