By Ikenna Uwadileke Rotary Club of Abuja Imperial, on Saturday organised a vocational skills acquisition training programme on bead-making, fascinator and turban design for 10 women. Former President of Rotary Club Imperial, Mrs Ifeoma Ihenacho, said that the training was designed to equip the young women with necessary skills that would engage them economically. According to her, Rotary is about fostering good service and empowering people and coincidentally this January is our month of vocational services. “So, we decided to organise this programme to train and empower young women. “We are training these women so that they can also train other people as well,’’ Ihenacho said. She said that the beneficiaries would be empowered with start-up packs after the training to enable them establish their businesses. “This will enable them get financially independence. “We will see how we can get them materials and funds to help them amplify what they have learnt,’’ Ihenacho said. On his part, the Charter President of the Club, Mr Adedotun Amori, said that the beneficiaries would be sponsored for advanced classes in future to enable them to empower and impact other people. He said that the programme would enable the women sustain themselves and their families economically. The instructor, Mrs Nkechi Ebubedike, expressed delight over the commitment of the women towards the programme. While commending them on their level of concentration, Ebubedike said that the rate of unemployment in the country should propel every youth to get a skill. “They are trying so hard to use this opportunity to learn so much as they can to be able to help themselves. “They are really grabbing faster than I expected and most of them have indicated interest that they want to take it up as a business,’’ she said. Ebubedike, however, blamed the inability to increase the number of beneficiaries on paucity of funds. According to her, the major challenge we are facing is because of the financial constraint we are not able to take more people. A lot of people indicated interest but we have to bring it to 10. She urged government at different levels to intensify their support in promoting small and medium entrepreneurship in the country. On behalf of the beneficiaries, Miss Tonia Imana, commended the organisers of the programme and pledged that they would make the best out of the training. According to her, “we are really learning a lot, I and my colleagues had little knowledge about bead making but with this training we can make necklaces and bangles. “We hope to learn more to help us become financially independent and contribute meaningfully to the society. “Government should partner with the sponsors of this programme because such training will help to eradicate poverty in the country,’’ Imana said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the beneficiaries were issued certificates at the end of the training. (NAN) (www.nanews.ng) Edited by Vincent Obi