By Cecilia Ijuo Prof. John Abhuere has called on government at all levels and relevant stakeholders to invest in the youth to fulfil the dreams of Nigeria’s founding fathers. Abhuere, founder of the Centre for Childcare and Youth Development (CCYD), said this at children’s event organised by the centre on Tuesday in Abuja. CCYD is a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), established to help proffer solution to socio-economic problems largely affecting young people in the country. The event was organised to mark the International Day for Education and World Day for African and Afro-Descendant Culture. The don, a former Director with the National Youth Service Corps(NYSC), said the best way to put Nigeria back on the path of glory was to make quality education a priority. He said, “our generation has failed this country but we cannot continue to live in disappointment. “We need to properly groom our children, input in them the right morals, teach them character, integrity and develop their skills to lead us to the promise land. “Investment in children education is the best way to develop the Nigeria of our dream.” The don said proper investment in education would go a long way in creating job opportunities while reducing crime rate, particularly among youths. On the activities to mark the day, Abhuere commended the schools that participated in the event. He also commended the creativity, intelligence and smartness displayed by the students in the various activities lined up to mark the day. “What we are doing today will assist them into becoming ambitious and working towards success in life. The Programme Officer of CCYD, Chiamaka Ekele, said government and relevant stakeholders should prioritise education. She said prioritising education would accelerate progress towards all the Sustainable Development Goals. On celebration of African and Afro-Descendant Culture, Ekele said promoting African culture was crucial for the development of the continent. She said it was time for relevant stakeholders to “join hands to promote education and protect African culture.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that there were cultural displays, quiz, presentations and other activities by the different schools that attended the event to mark the day. Certificates and prizes were also presented to schools that emerged winners in the various activities. The International Day of Education and World Day for African and Afro-Descendant Culture are annual events marked on Jan. 24. The 2023 International Day of Education has the theme, “To Invest in People Prioritise Education”. Meanwhile, the World Day for African and Afro-Descendant Culture is aimed at celebrating the various cultures of the African continent and African Diasporas around the world. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ============= Edited by Isaac Aregbesola