Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) has appointed Mr Chidiebere Onwumere as the new Executive Director of its Policy Advocacy Centre. This is contained in a statement issued on Tuesday in Abuja by Mrs Olayemi John-Mensah, ACCI Media/Strategy Officer. According to John-Mensah, Onwumere, a professional in media and marketing is the co-founder of Brandmarks Communications Limited, one of Nigeria’s leading Strategy and Communications Consultancy firms. She said that Onwumere’s quest for the acquisition of Media and Marketing Communication competencies guaranteed his place as a trusted advisor to governments and corporations across a multiplicity of communication subject areas. “This is ranging from public relations, government-to-citizen relations, advocacy and behavioural change communication to media communications, experiential marketing and social/grassroots mobilisation,’’ John-Mensah said. According to her, Onwumere assisted several government institutions and private sector organisations design and deliver a broad range of world-class communication campaigns across the world. “Consequently, he is very versed in perception molding, stakeholder engagement and behavioural change communication. “In the public sector, Onwumere has been a strategy and public communications consultant to several governments, ministries and parastatals. “Aside from working with the public sector, Onwumere has experience of designing communication interventions with several international Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and development partner organisations. “He has also consulted for the USAID and the Department for International Development on a number of community engagement and stakeholder communication programme. “He has also been consultant on integrated communications projects for several brands,’’ John-Mensah said. She said that the new executive director has a Master’s Degree in Media Communications from Bournemouth University, UK and currently a Doctoral student at the Baze University, Abuja. “He would bring his wealth of experience in media and marketing to bear in the development of the Chamber,’’ she said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Onwumere took over from Mr Olawale Rasheed, the Chairman of ACCI Transport Trade Group and the founding Executive Director of the Policy Centre. Rasheed was recently appointed as the spokeperson to the Governor of Osun State, Sen. Adeleke Ademola. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Ese E. Eniola Williams