Mr Mubarak Ladan, General Manager, Kaduna Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency   By Tosin Kolade Mr Mubarak Ladan, General Manager, Kaduna Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RUWASSA), on Tuesday pledged the agency’s commitment to improve access to potable water for its communities. Ladan spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on the sidelines of the ongoing National Retreat for States on the `Clean Nigeria: Use The Toilet’ Campaign in Abuja. According to him, the state government has shown the highest political will by providing support for the agency to meet its targets. He said the state was one of the seven states selected for the Sustainable Urban and Rural Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene (SURWASH) programme, aimed at scaling up access to water, especially in rural areas. “The selection is based on efforts and the political will that had been demonstrated in the past and the successes recorded in previous projects in the state. “Twenty two out of the 23 local government areas in Kaduna have benefitted from different intervention programmes, the only LGA that did not benefit was Kaduna north, because it has no rural community. “Our action plans are to scale up access to sanitation and water to the rural populace, and already we have set out our targets, and we have programmes coming in. “Like the SURWASH Programme, we intend to use this programme to reach the less privileged, doing a scale of preferences to see that interventions reach those who are most vulnerable and under-served.” He listed the challenges of insufficient funding, noting that the state government had shown the strongest political will, in spite of the global economic crises. He called on relevant stakeholders to support the state in the actualisation of its target, saying there is need for additional funding from the organised private sector in WASH. The general manager however, called on governments at all levels, to continue to give the needed support to agencies responsible for WASH in their various states. While appreciating Gov. Nasir El-Rufa’i for his support to the programme, he called on all other state governments to emulate Kaduna’s efforts, towards meeting their set target of achieving the ODF (Open Defacation Free) Nigeria by 2025. NAN reports that the SURWASH programme is a 700 million dollars credit World-Bank supported programme, being implemented some selected states. They are Delta, Ekiti, Gombe, Imo, Kaduna, Katsina and Plateau states. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ====== Edited by Nyisom Fiyigon Dore