By Babatunde Ogunrinde The Kwara Falcons of Ilorin continued their dominance in the basketball arena in Nigeria as they beat Ghana Knights of Accra, 65-58, to clinch the trophy at the Louis Edem Men’s Basketball Invitational Championship. They won the N2 million prize and other consolation prizes to the admiration of their fans who crowded the Indoor Sports Hall of the National Stadium, Surulere, to watch the match. The championship, the maiden edition, started on Feb. 6 and ended on Feb. 11 and had about 10 clubs playing for honours. Black Knights of Accra who were the only international team, went home with N1m and other consolation prizes. The Head Coach of Kwara Falcons, Baba Jibril, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) after their victory that hard work and proper team cohesion gave them the win. “We are happy to lift the trophy and so far won back to back Invitational tourneys to the delight of our fans and sponsors. “We worked hard and prepared well for every tournament we go for, we understand that the expectations on us is high and we hope to match it up at every other game. Similarly, Ghana’s Head Coach, Selom Thomas, told NAN that the tournament had lived up to the expectations and was proud of his team’s performance despite losing to Falcons. He praised the organisers and said that events like this would go a long way in developing young budding talents and give them a chance to showcase their qualities. “I’m impressed with my team, although we lost to Falcons. We gave it our best but it was not good enough, but we are proud of our achievement in the competition. “Competitions like this are welcomed as we have to take them seriously. They help us to develop our players and improve more in their ratings. The tournarment coordinator, Louis Edem, said that he was proud of the whole activities, revealing that he was encouraged by the success and would do more for the sport. “The tournament was a successful one, it had everything that I hope to see and I am highly encouraged to stage another edition next year. “However, I intend to give the women a chance to prove themselves as I would be staging the women’s version in a few months time,” he said. NAN reports that other teams that participated in the competition included Rivers Hoopers of Port Harcourt, Warlords of Lagos, Lagos Legends, Gidi Giants, Raptors of Lagos. Comets of Lagos, University of Lagos and Police Batons of Lagos. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)   Edited by Chidinma Agu/Vincent Obi