By Oladapo Udom and Mateen Badru   The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Obinna Ajunwa, has commended the current synergy between the military and other security agencies in the society towards ensuring peace. Ajunwa said this during the Division’s and Headquarter’s Nigerian Army Engineers 2022 West African Social Activities (WASA) 2022 which held at Bonny Cantonment, Victoria Island, Lagos on Saturday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that WASA is an annual social event organised by the Nigerian Army to promote bonding through social activities among personnel and families while displaying rich cultural heritage. The GOC said that the army had done well in curbing insecurity so far and that it would not relent in ensuring peace and tranquility in the country. Ajunwa said WASA was an occasion to reflect on the training activities in the previous year with a view to positioning the command for greater achievements in line with the Chief Of Army Staff (COAS) Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya’s vision. “The COAS vision is to have a professional Nigerian Army ready to accomplish assigned missions within a joint environment in defence of Nigeria,” he said. The GOC commended the organising committee, adding that WASA was an informal social interaction among officers, soldiers, families and invited guests.   Also, the Special Guest of Honour, Maj.-Gen. Thompson Oliomogbe, urged Nigerians to support the military to combat insecurity through information sharing across the country. Oliomogbe said WASA was an event that all military personnel cherished as it provided the opportunity to interact in a more relaxed atmosphere after a hectic year. “It is also another venue to specially recognise personnel from each of the participating formations and units that distinguished themselves in conduct during the year. “I wish to encourage all to maintain the standard achieved in 2022 and improve on it in the Nigeria Army Corps of Engineers and in 81 division,” he said. Oliomogbe commended the GOC and the Commander, Corps Of Engineers, Maj.-Gen. Philip Eromosele, for their efforts while he urged officers to put in more efforts in combating insecurity. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that soldiers were presented with awards of excellence and there were cultural displays by the Hausa/Fulani, Igbo, Benin, Kanuri, Yoruba and Tiv dancers. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)     Edited by Idris Abdulrahman