By Ikenna Uwadileke The Rotary Club of Abuja Imperial, has urged community leaders to convey the message of peaceful coexistence among their followers irrespective of religion, political affiliation and cultural differences. Mr Adedotun Amori, Charter President, Rotary Club of Abuja Imperial, made the call at a one-day community dialogue on sustainable peace building and conflict prevention on Saturday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the dialogue session is focused on sensitising community leaders on the imperatives of peace before, during and after the 2023 general elections. Amori said that peace is critical in the development of every society, adding that the essence of this dialogue  was to educate people to eschew violence and embrace peace always. “As part of Rotary’s cardinal area of focus, we decided to bring the message of peace building and conflict prevention to the people of Kadokuchi. “We have had the opportunity to speak with the community leaders on effective communication in resolving conflicts, practical and easy ways to promote peace in our communities and ensure conflict prevention. “We have also discussed with them on the essence of security as we approach the next general elections and the need to uphold effective leadership qualities as necessary tools towards building sustainable peace in our communities,’’ Amori said. Earlier, the resource persons emphasised the need for the community leaders to promote actions and ideas that would entrench peace in their various communities. Ms Bukola Shaba, a communication expert, urged them to use effective communication as a tool for conflict prevention and resolution in their communities. Shaba encouraged  them to demonstrate love in handling situations within their  families and  members of  their  communities. Mr Babayemi Olaniyan, Lead Partner, Lehi Attorneys, in his presentation titled “Practical Ways of Promoting Peace in the Community’’ urged the community leaders to always appreciate individual differences among their subjects. Olaniyan said it was important for them to understand individual differences as people interpret things differently. “There are intra personal conflicts and inter personal conflicts and once you are able to understand these conflict areas you will be able to understand people. “Like the onion model, the onion has different layers; once you keep on peeling off the external parts you gradually get to the inside of the onion and that is how human beings are. “You see them from the outside and they give you a different perception of who they are but if you check deep you see the kind of persons they are, their desires and their fears. “And once you understand that about human beings you will be able to prevent conflict. “As community leaders they are constantly engaging with community members so the best way to prevent conflict is to understand who they are dealing with. “Once they understand who they are dealing with it helps them manage issues better,’’ he said. Dr Funmilayo Oyefusi, urged the community leaders to explore effective communication process to promote peace in their various communities. She urged them to always embrace dialogue, noting that mutual respect is critical in ensuring sustainable peace and conflict prevention. Oyefusi  urged them to demonstrate confidence, integrity and ability to influence others. She  tasked them to show determination towards peace, be socially friendly and initiate pro-active measures to forestall negative occurences. On his part, Dr Olukayode Obayomi urged the community leaders to  promote the security of their communities, particularly during the elections. Obayomi urged them to ensure social and personal peace among themselves that would promote peace in their families and the society at large. “Always ensure personal peace to promote peace in the community and to have that inner peace you must be law abiding. “When you start with yourself as an individual, then peace will reign in your community,’’ he said. Obayomi further urged them to be contempted with what they have and put measures in place to check those who cause trouble in their communities. She advised  them to avoid being used by politicians to cause violence during elections, Obayomi urged them to be more security conscious. “You must secure yourself to be able to secure others and ensure we have contacts of the security agencies to reports any criminality,’’ he said. The District Head of Kadokuchi Community, Suleman Dodo, commended the Rotary Club for the sensitisation programme. He said that the essence of peace and security cannot be overemphasised, particularly in elections period. Dodo said that the programme had expanded his knowledge on how to sustain peace and prevent conflict in his community. “I am very happy about the enlightenment to my people and we will build on this to ensure that our community remains peaceful,’’ he said. Dodo urged Rotary Club  to sustain the efforts in other communities to ensure that peace reigns in the communities. The district head of Kadokuchi urged the electorate to be peaceful during the elections and vote credible candidates who will entrench good governance. He urged the people not to allow themselves to be used as thugs during the elections. NAN also reports that 40 community leaders participated in the dialogue.(NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Joseph Edeh