By Julius Toba-Jegede The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for Ekiti Central Senatorial District, Sen. Opeyemi Bamidele, has expressed appreciation to the people of Ekiti for voting him for a second term in the senate. The senator also thanked people of the state for overwhelmingly voting for Sen. Bola Tinubu, the APC presidential candidate in Saturday’s elections. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, expressed the appreciation while speaking at a thanksgiving service held at Babamuboni Memorial Anglican Church, Iyin-Ekiti on Sunday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Bamidele was accompanied to the church service by his wife, Yemisi, family members, friends and political associates. While thanking God for victory at the polls, he also sought the support and prayers of all sons and daughters of the state for the task ahead. NAN reports that Bamidele was earlier declared winner of the senatorial election by the INEC Collation Officer for Ekiti Central Senatorial District, Prof. Sola Omotola at the State Results Collation Centre in Ado-Ekiti. He polled 69,351 to defeat his close rival, Lateef Ajijola of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who polled 26,181. “My main purpose of coming here today is to give thanks to Almighty God for His amazing grace over my life and family and for the success of yesterday’s National Assembly and Presidential Election. “I also thank God for making me to win the election in a landslide manner. “I appreciate all our people in Ekiti Central Senatorial District and the Church of God. I am indebted to the Church leadership for their continued prayers and support, ” Bamidele said. He said he also came to seek spiritual blessings and benediction for the tasks ahead. In his remarks, the church vicar, Ven. Oluwasola Adekola, said Bamidele’s victory was well-deserved based on his track records of performance in his previous political positions especially in the 9th Senate. Adekola said the senator had brought dividends of democracy to the people of his senatorial district in the last four years. He, therefore, prayed for more grace, God’s protection and wisdom for Bamidele to enable him perform more excellently in his second tenure in the senate. (NAN) ======= Edited by Razak Owolabi