By Kelechi Ogunleye Some small Non-Governmental Organisations NGO) in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) expressed concerns over difficulties experienced in accessing grants for humanitarian services. They expressed their concerns in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) during a one-day training organized by West African Civil Society Forum (WACSOF), on Sunday in Abuja. Mrs Ene Jonathan, Chief Executive Director (CEO), Global Integrity Crusade Network, said that sourcing for funds from donor organisations had been difficult for her foundation. Jonathan said that her education and gender-based foundation has been in existence for five years and has never gotten financial assistance from external persons asides from family and friends. She hoped that the training organised by WACSOF which had in attendance representatives of some civil society grant donors would enlighten small and new humanitarian organisations on how to appropriately seek for grants. “Applying for grants is not easy so we are here to know better on how to apply as well as what we are doing wrongly. “Funds is a major challenge so we are here on capacity building to learn how to apply for funds,” she said. Also speaking, Mrs Andrea Uwadiae ,CEO Pit to Peak, an NGO said that her organisation which has been in existence for four years is fully funded by herself and husband. Uwadiae, who is also the Chairman of WACSOF said that it would be a great relief to the orgaisation to get assistance from local and international fund donors. She described the training as prompt, adding that it would help NGOs know how to properly write fund proposals and network with important stakeholders and partners. The Malala Fund, Advocacy Manager in Nigeria, Mr Femi Aderibigbe said that although funds are limited compared to demands and availability, there is need for NGOs to make use of the media in all humanitarian works. “Your lack of fund could be attributed to your inability to effectively report through the media because it is through the media some grant donors will know and track events carried out by NGOs. “Civil society budget less in communicating what they do. They say stories rather than communicate results and impact which will drive support from partners who believe in your course. “It is also important to invite stakeholders for events as this will aid collaboration with international organizations and partners to access available opportunities. “In the Malala Fund, our strategy in giving out grants is not to call for applications. We carry out researches and or bases on recommendation from organisations that have implemented programmes similar to what we want to do. “Before seeking for funds, do research and apply to places clearly in line with what you do and ensure proposals are properly written. “Organisations should follow up on feedbacks as to why they miss out on opportunities even after writing proposals”. WACSOF National Coordinator, Mr David Olatunji said that the forum was a coalition of all civil society that make up the Economic Community of West African State (ECOWAS), serving as a vehicle to reach the grassroots. He said that the programme is aimed at training members on how to get grants, discover the abilty to identify where funds are and requirements to assessing funds and to put ourselves in a way that funders will be willing to work with us. “Organization should follow up on why they missed out,” he said.(NAN)(www.nannres.ng) Edited by Sadiya Hamza