Prof. Shuaib Oba, Kwara NNPP Governorship Candidate    By Ikenna Uwadileke Emeritus Prof. Shuaib Oba, Kwara’s New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) governorship candidate, says politics should not be seen as a dirty game left to politicians alone if Nigeria is to be fully developed. Oba, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday, urged Nigerians, especially the youths, to be actively involved in party politics. “Saying politics is a dirty game is wrong. Politics should be for the clean people as well, for us to reach the promised land,” the former Vice Chancellor of the University of Ilorin said. Oba said that clean people should not leave politics for the dirty people. He said, instead, they should be involved through active participation so as contribute to cleaning the Augean stable. “If all clean people leave politics to dirty people, we will have a dirty nation of dirty people who will make dirty laws that will be obeyed by good people, whether they like it or not. “So, if you are going to be a victim in that case, it’s only appropriate that good people should also take an interest. “Politics is too serious to be left to politicians alone. If people of goodwill attempt damage control, people will appreciate it,” the NNPP governorship candidate said. On why he joined NNPP to actualise his Kwara governorship ambition, Oba said it is because, among other things, the party is devoid of corrupt leaders and members. “I joined NNPP because it has people who have a clean bill of health against corruption. “Our presidential candidate, Dr Rabiu Kwankwaso is one of those who have not been chased around by anti-corruption agencies in the country,” he said Oba said part of his “The Strategic Action for Change in Kwara (SACK)” programme is zero tolerance for corruption and, in the process, inspires good governance. He asserted that zero tolerance for corruption is achievable through value re-orientation and sensitisation of the public service, including strategic and innovative investments of workers’ pensions to assure geometric bumper return on investment that safeguards their future. Oba said another way was  showing good leadership by example, whereby the leader would make it clear through his actions that he would not tolerate corruption. “Waste reduction and elimination, as well as getting value for money, will go a long way in eradicating corrupt practices. “Moreover, probity, the sanctity of property rights and good governance will inspire private sector confidence. “These will also reduce transactional costs and attract excellent symbiotic public-private partnership investment that will unlock unparalleled socio-economic inclusive growth for Kwarans,” he said. According to Oba, good governance is relatively inexpensive. “Still, bad governance is destructive and has catastrophic intergenerational ramifications if not stemmed,” he said. Oba promised that he would entrench good governance from the onset once he is sworn in as the next governor of Kwara. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng). Edited by Razak Owolabi