By Rukayat Moisemhe The management of Techno Oil Ltd. has directed its outlets nationwide to make fuel sales to motorists round the clock, to mitigate the hardships facing Nigerians currently. The Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr Tony Onyeama, made the announcement on Monday in Lagos while speaking on the efforts of the company to end the current crippling fuel scarcity. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nigerians are currently facing another round of a nerve-wracking fuel scarcity that has forced motorists nationwide to queue for hours at filling stations, in a bid to buy fuel. “We have directed our outlets nationwide to dispense fuel to marketers and to motorists, to assist government in its relentless and ongoing efforts to end the latest round of fuel scarcity. “Our fuel sales outlets are open round the clock to give needed services to the public, to bring the fuel scarcity problem to an end.’’ Onyeama pleaded with oil marketers to give necessary support to the Federal Government to ensure fuel availability at a time like now, to ease the suffering faced by the masses. According to him, Techno Oil has always come to the rescue as a leading oil marketer in moments of fuel scarcity in the country. Nigeria, Africa’s top crude exporter has been plagued by a recurrent fuel scarcity crisis that appears to be posing a serious threat to a landmark general election, slated for this month. The situation appears to look worrisome with the problem compounded by the prevailing crisis in the financial sector, caused by the redesign of the naira currency. The redesign of the naira, which is being carried out by the Central Bank of Nigeria has resulted to an acute shortage of money in banks and automated teller machines in the country. The development has forced hundreds of people to besiege various banks in a bid to withdraw money, while scores of point of sale operators have been forced out of business, due to a lack of cash. Similarly, many small holder businesses have been forced to close shops, due to a lack of patronage. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)   Edited by Silas Nwoha