By Fabian Ekeruche Folio Media Group, publishers of Daily Times, and its partners has called for renewed hope in the Nigeria of our dreams. Mr Sunny Ikwuagu, General Manager, Folio Communications, made the call at a news conference to unveil Nigeria’s Heritage Protect – “The Nigerian Grand Book.’ Ikwuagu said that the Nigerian project is a multipurpose platform conceived for redirecting the convoluted perception of Nigeria (and Nigerians). He added that the project was in partnership with the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) and Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM). “In the next 10 years, this public-private partnership project shall strategically reveal, highlight and celebrate the very best of Nigeria. “We are convinced that this partnership shall deepen the ultimate objective of the project for a wholesome image overhaul for Nigeria. “We believe that this project will engender an inflow of foreign direct investments through a well coordinated mix of sustained activities. “We have put together critical initiatives and programmes that will be instrumental to the actualisation of the broader objectives of this project. “Part of which is the Nigerian Grand Book, a national souvenir, which seeks to create a high-impact historical publication to feature the path-finding role of Nigerians and corporate organisations in national development,” Ikwuagu said. According to him, the Nigerian Grand Book is an impeccably researched compendium of the birth and growth of Nigeria, which is presented in two broad sections to reaffirm Nigeria’s bond of unity and diversity. Ikwuagu said that the book was an exclusive stand alone collectors’ item, exquisitely handcrafted in limited editions. He said that the book highlights historical contents to reinforce an understanding of essential Nigeria in its glorious antecedents and the narrative up until 2000AD. Ikwuagu said that the book was an archival delight and a treasure trove of nostalgic pictures of remarkable moments of the Nigerian nation. “I am happy to announce to you today that our media organisation, The Daily Times Nigeria, with over 90 years of operation possesses the richest reservoir of captivating library images of Nigeria’s epochal moments. “The book is a cultural phenomenon defining a new Nigeria, emblematic of positivity. “Naija has become the established spirit of the contemporary Nigeria as a power house of talent and opportunities, where creativity is empowering the youth to winning acclaim in the global space. “We believe that this project provides a powerful platform to showcase pioneering contributions of Nigerians to nation building and development. “We welcome partners from the organised private sector on this quest of a global perception management project for Nigeria,” Ikwuagu said. He said that the first edition of the book that would be released on June 1, would be a limited edition with only 63 units produced to align with Nigeria’s years of nationhood. He said that the first edition would be distributed to their partners in the private sector and key Ministry, Department and Agencies of government. According to him, the Nigerian grand book is a national souvenir which tells the Nigerian story, highlighting the rich cultural resources which abounds in Nigeria. Also speaking, Mr Bolaji Okusaga, Managing Consultant, Precise Platform, said the book seeks to restore hope and optimism to Nigerians, Nigerians in the Diaspora and the global investment community. Okusaga said that the book chronicles achievement of Nigerians, home and abroad, who are contributing meaningfully to better the world. The consultant noted that beyond the daunting challenges of today, Nigeria has scalable achievements that could be leveraged to woo investors into the country. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ============== Edited by Chinyere Joel-Nwokeoma