By Segun Giwa The Atulunse Initiative, a cultural socio-political pro-democracy advocacy group, says it is planning a symposium on electoral reform to educate Nigerians particularly in South-West on how to make their votes count at the forthcoming elections. Mr Olaseni Shalom, Coordinator, Atulunse Initiatives, Nigeria, said this in a statement on Tuesday in Akure. Shalom said that the symposium would principally highlight the challenges in electoral systems with particular regards to vote capture and reflection. He said the symposium would hold in Akure, on Thursday with Dr Kayode Ajulo, a legal practitioner, delivering the keynote address and lecture. “The symposium is on electoral reform titled: “Let Our Votes Count,” and the Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredelu is the Chief Host of the day,” he said. Shalom said that the Atulunse Initiative had over the years driven discourse for credible leadership as a veritable tool for social engineering. He noted that the group was interested on the concentric benefits of evolving reliable systems and institutions to birth seamless and credible electoral processes where votes count and determine political outcomes. “This year’s symposium will build on the lessons and observations of the past and present to add practicable thoughts and solutions to the unique challenges in the Nigerian electoral process particularly as it affects the South-West. “The symposium will be contributing a body of literature toward influencing a policy shift in favor of the Yoruba race. “With evolving crisis in a waning sense of belonging, insecurity and political subterfuge of the Yoruba people in contemporary times, the imperative to regroup, re-think and re-strategise a stake in the unfolding theatre of modern Nigerian politics is overwhelming. “Atulunse Initiative seeks to interrogate a pathway to a legitimate leadership post 2023 at the federal, state and local government areas, deliberately and favourably disposed and committed to the growth and development of the Yoruba Nation. “In doing this, we are mindful of the peculiarities that set us apart broadly and specifically,” he said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng.ng) ================ Edited by Emmanuel Afonne/Chinyere Joel-Nwokeoma