By Maureen Okon Dr. Peter Mozie , the National Chairman of All Nigerian Nationals in the Diaspora (ANNID) has reiterated the groups’ commitment to observe and ensure a free, fair and credible 2023 general elections. Mozie made the commitment at a news briefing on ANNID’s agenda in Nigeria at the 2023 polls, in Abuja on Friday. According to Mozie, the group is representing 18.5 million Nigerians living in the Diaspora, who have civil right as patriotic citizens to participate in the upcoming general elections. “We are here to observe the 2023 elections and to make sure that the election is conducted fairly, freely and credible. “This is not the first time we are doing this observation; in 2011 over 500 Nigerians in Diaspora from over 52 countries visited Nigeria to see how we can add value to the democratic process. “At the end of our consultation, we all decided that we would get involved in the elections’ monitoring and observation to make sure that credible people are being elected into offices. “So, after that event we’ve been observing elections from 2011, 2015 up till this day, so we are here to repeat the same feat again. “Also, this time around the situation is different because we are going to make sure that we observe all the elections in Nigeria at all levels to make sure is free, fair and credible,” he said. Mozie noted that the group was recommended as partners with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to train all their accredited observers for free. “We trained observers for the previous elections and this time around, we are going to do the same thing again. “We will also help the local observers and strengthen them. “We also went ahead and formed what you call the coalition of INEC accredited election observers comprising of about 100 Non-Governmental Organisations,” he said. According to him, this is the first time INEC has allowed international observer groups to have access to their portal to upload certain information. “We believe that this is an assurance that Nigeria is moving in the right direction and also at the end of the elections, credible leaders will emerge to head various offices,” he said The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the five man-team was led by Dr. Mozie, while others include Mr Uke Ugwu, Deputy Head of Mission, Ms Hannatu, Company Director/Anchor person for ANNID. Others are Mr Oliver Nkuku, Head of Corporate Communications ANNID, and Mrs Nonye Igwegbe, ANNID member from Boston.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ============ Edited by Isaac Aregbesola