By Ginika Okoye The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), has charged the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada on effective domestication of the Patients Bill of Rights (PBoR). The Executive Vice Chairman of FCCPC, Mr Babatunde Irukera, said this when he visited the hospital in Gwagwalada on Wednesday. Irukera commended the management of the hospital for their efforts toward ensuring the domestication of the rights in the facility. He urged the management of the hospital to ensure that patients were treated with fairness, especially during their traumatic times. Irukera said the Commission would hold the hospital responsible and accountable for every complaint raised by patients. The executive vice chairman appealed to the management of the hospital to ensure that the implementation of the PBoR trickled down to all staff in the facility. “What we have come here to do is to congratulate you because you said that the hospital has already domesticated the 12 PBoR. “We demand more from you and for every complaint from patients, we will come after you. “Your work tolerates very minimal margin of error. “It is important that this domestication goes round to both the security men and cleaners in the hospital,” he said. Prof. Bissallah Ekele, the Chief Medical Director of the hospital, said they had already domesticated the 12 PBoR in the institution through their dealings with patients. Ekele, represented by Dr Bob Ukonu, the Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee of the hospital, said the hospital had transformed over the years to ensure effective service delivery to patients. According to him, we have moved from a 350 bedded hospital to 550 bedded hospital. “We have made sure that things are put in place in the hospital and patients are attended to well,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the PBoR was inaugurated in 2018 by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to tackle healthcare impediments. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ============== Edited by Ese E. Eniola Williams