By Segun Giwa A social cultural group, Atunluse Initiatives, has warned its members against selling their votes in the forthcoming general election, urging them to vote for candidates based on personal attributes. The Chairman of Atunluse initiatives, Otunba Akinsola Akinbobola, gave the warning on Monday in Akure during a meeting with members of the group from all the 18 local government areas of the state. Akinbobola charged them to examine the character and capacity of the candidates of the various political parties, and vote for candidates that will lead the country to the dreamland. He admonished members to educate members of the public on the dangers of vote buying. “We must start thinking of breaking this hardship circle in Nigeria, by doing what is right. Reject their(politicians) money on elections’ day and vote for candidate with credibility and capability to deliver,” he said. Akinbobola revealed that the group was ready to work with any political party that has people’s oriented programmes in its manifesto. He explained that the organisation stands for building a better Nigeria, where the masses would have access to affordable health care, qualitative education and other basic amenities. According to him, Atunluse Initiatives is “a big umbrella” with membership across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Akinbobola also said the leadership of the group will only work with political party that recognised what it stands for, which is a birth of a new and better Nigeria. “Looking at the parties, the Labour party is the only party that share the same ideology with our group, nevertheless, we are going to x-ray the parties and adopt the best for the masses after further consultations,” he said. In his remarks, the Coordinator of the group, Mr Shalom Olaseni, urged members to remain focused, saying that “better Nigeria is possible if we can all do away with tribalism, ethnicity and other negative vices.” Olaseni assured the members that the leadership of the group will always protect their interest. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========== Edited by Tayo Ikujuni