By Ruth Oketunde The Labour Party senatorial candidate in the Federal Capital Territory, Hajiya Ireti Kingibe, has promised to deliver credible representation and provide infrastructural development to residents of the FCT once elected into office. She said this while briefing newsmen on Tuesday in Abuja. Kingibe, who is the only female candidate contesting for the position in the nation’s capital, said she was ready to give the FCT a new direction. “I am running because I have seen great lapses and lacuna in the representation of the FCT. “I have lived in the FCT since 1988 and I have watched the FCT grow from a place where people only lived in the life camps to one when it was developed to the number one place and now it has been regressed to irrelevance and poverty. “The senatorial seat is the highest elective position in the FCT and the senator works closely with the FCT minister to represent the people and to also take care of FCT infrastructure which is under the minister’s purview. “But the senator is there to keep an eye on the needs of the people because he is representing them. “But now, if you remove Maitama, Asokoro, Wuse, Wuse 2, CBD and the Airport road, there is nothing in other places, development is zero. “You can’t go to Nyanya for instance and see good roads, no place has water or lights, in 2023 and the FCT has two budgets; truly we should be able to do more than that. “What I am bringing is credible representation, I am not trying to put anything in my pocket,” she said. Kingibe said she was contesting because she was determined to give back to society and improve the well-being of Nigerians. She said that she would focus on bringing development and empowerment to the people at the grassroots because that “is the ideology of the Labour Party’’. According to her, she will be working closely with her colleagues in the Senate to make laws that will be favourable to the people of the FCT. “What I am bringing to the FCT is goodwill, determination to work, integrity and sincerity. “I am going to make a difference in the lives of the people and residents of the FCT and that is what I am bringing to the table once elected,” she said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ======= Edited by Grace Yussuf