By Dorcas Jonah The FCT Directorate of National Orientation Agency (NOA) has solicited the collaboration of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), FCT council to sensitised Nigerians on the redesigned naira notes. The Acting Director, NOA FCT Directorate, Mrs Comfort Ogunmola, said this when she led a delegation to the NUJ FCT council office on Wednesday in Abuja. Ogunmola said that it was the agency`s mandate to sensitise Nigerians on government policies and Programmes. She called on Nigerians to accept the naira notes and to be patient with government as it`s try to get the new note in circulation. Ogunmola said government has been sensitive to the cry of Nigerians by extending the deadline for the old currency as legal tender. He said that the change was done in good faith for a better Nigeria. She said that change of currency was statutory which should be carried out every five to eight years, adding that it was done to mop up excess money in circulation. “We have a lot of money stashed in people`s houses and it is not good for our economy, hence the need for the redesigned notes. “The redesigned naira notes is to checkmate this and ensure that all money released are in circulation. “Today we are here on advocacy visit to NUJ because I see NUJ as partners in progress since our jobs are similar. “For all we do, if we don’t have the media coverage and projection of our activities, we will not be visible even when we are doing so much. “This is not to deny the robust support we have enjoyed with the media but there is always room for more,” she said. Responding, the Chairman, NUJ FCT Council, Mr Emmanuel Ogbeche, thanked the agency for seeking collaboration with the council and pledged the council’s willingness to work with the agency. Ogbeche said that the country was faced with three critical issues of elections, census and currency introduction which was causing some challenges in the system. The chairman said the role of NOA was critical in mobilising and creating enlightenment for the Nigerian populace. Ogbeche appreciated the government for listening to the cry of the people to extend the deadline of swapping the old currency for new ones. He, however, called on the government to do more enlightenment for the census as the awareness was low. “Census is very important in terms of national planning and development. But I must confess that the awareness in terms of arrangement for the census is not as compared to the elections. “So the NOA has a major assignment to keep Nigerians up to date on census because even the mode census that was conducted, people seem not to be fully aware of what is happening. “Since a lot of resources have been deployed to ensure that we have a near accurate data in our demography, we are willing to work with NIA on this direction,” he said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========= Edited by Joseph Edeh