By Deji Abdulwahab Showmax, an African video streaming service, on Tuesday unveiled the Real Housewives of Abuja (RHOAbuja), a television reality show at the Nile University of Nigeria in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the like The Real Housewives of Lagos and the other shows in the franchise, RHOAbuja will follow the lives of influential and successful women as they navigate their social lives, relationships, businesses, careers, and family within the capital city and beyond. The RHOAbuja series stars Arafa, who is Creative Director, Comfort Booth, a lawyer and Talk show host and OJ Posharella who is marketing influencer. Others are princess Jecoco, a lawyer and hotelier, Tutupie, who is chef and event curator and Samantha Homossany, who is entrepreneur. The six professionals in Abuja on Tuesday evening delivered a high dose of glamour and drama as they intermingle and share their lifestyle experiences with one another. Arafa said, “ I am a business entrepreneur who is not one to follow cliques, so it’s been difficult to expose myself to a wider audience. Therefore, I am grateful for this platform that allows me to do so. “I have never pretended to be anybody other than who I am. It hasn’t been an easy road, but everything that has happened in my life has led me up to this point. “I have learned from my past, I have grown from my past, and I am grateful for all the experiences. Everyone has a story to tell, and I am no different,” she said. Comfort, who is also a foodie, said she sees The Real Housewives of Abuja as an opportunity to “write a story on a blank slate that is on an international platform. She said that she used to think she was familiar with the franchise but found out that she does not. According to her, I understand that being on the show will open me more to the world. Speaking shortly after their presentations, Dr Modupe Alesinloye, Dean of Students Affairs, Nile University of Nigeria described the show as very exciting. Alesinloye said, “This is a show that we are all looking to, considering what has been done with the real housewives of Lagos. So, we are all being excited. “I look at ladies that are involved in it and I see that they are all amazing personalities. “So, having them here on Nile University campus it has been very exciting for both staff and students” According to her, I think it is obvious how the women in their own different capacity has been able to build themselves up. “They are all professionals in their different fields and the same time still finding time to entertain and mentor. I think it is a great thing they are doing,” don said. According to her, women need to strike a balance in all they have to do in life. “As you can see the stars of the show they are mothers, professionals and passionate about what they do. “So, this is very important for young girls to realize that whatever positions they find themselves, you can still be real of themselves and at the same time maintain a good balance in every thing that they do,” she said. Also speaking, Fatima Garba, an undergraduate said that the show made her to understand that she could realise her dream by combining motherhood with professional career. NAN reports that the Real Housewives, a reality TV show that was birthed in Orange County, the U. S., almost 17 years ago, continues to capture hearts around the world with the intriguing lifestyle of cast members. Now adapted in many countries, Nigeria premiered its first iteration with the ‘Real Housewives of Lagos’ which became a successful in 2022. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========= Edited by Sadiya Hamza