By Oluwatope Lawanson The Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, has urged Nigerians to vote for a visionary and credible leader like the first civilian Governor of the state, late Alhaji Lateef Jakande, in the coming elections. Hamzat gave the advice during the 2nd year Remembrance/Anniversary Prayers for Jakande at Ilupeju, Lagos on Saturday. The deputy governor praised the late Jakande for the numerous developmental and people-oriented programmes and policies he initiated and the indelible footprints he left in the state. He stated that the country needed a visionary leader with integrity, selflessness, who was highly committed and passionate about the wellbeing of the citizens and growth of the country. Hamzat, therefore, charged politicians in the country to emulate the virtues of late Jakande whom he described as a fantastic leader. He said the late Jakande was a quintessential politician and an administrator par excellence who had the foresight on the development of the State. The deputy governor also advised Lagos residents to ensure they did the right thing by voting for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State. “APC government has done well and needs to continue what it has started so as to make life easier for all. “I urge you to vote massively for the Presidential Candidate of APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for his capability, antecedents, connectivity, and the boldness to move the country forward. “Nigerians must desist from any form of sentiments and vote for a president that has a track record of success. ”Vote for a leader who can identify talents, skills, and intellect for the good of the people like Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu,” he said. In his sermon, Imam Hakeem Awwal said the attributes of a good leader include being courageous, with listening ears to the yearnings and aspirations of the citizens. He noted that a good leader must also have integrity, among others, which he said the late Jakande had. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that prayers were later offered for the repose of the soul of the deceased. Prayers were also offered for the family, children, the state, and nation in general. The highlight of the event was the launch of the Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande Health Foundation. It was set up to assist the less privileged and needy in the society to access good health care and education. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)   Edited by Oluwole Sogunle