Prof. Wale Sulaiman   By Femi Ogunshola Prof. Wale Sulaiman, the Kwara South Social Democratic Party (SDP) senatorial candidate has promised to seek a 10-million dollars investment in health and education for the benefits of the people of the district, if elected. Sulaiman said this during his meeting with Kwara southerners based in Abuja on Friday, tagged: “Discussing the Kwara South Prosperity Agenda, and the Need for Quality Representation”. The Professor of Neurosurgeon and Spinal Surgery said he had done all the needed calculation to know what it would cost to insure the people of Kwara South in health insurance and education. “We need a contingent of Kwara South development fund, if we have 10 million dollars; we will have health and education insurance in Kwara South. He said there was need to fight for the political and social economic emancipation of Kwara South, adding that this could only be achieved by electing someone like him with the vision. “We need to create wealth, we need to create opportunities for private sector, when there is no opportunity, there will be no room for development,” he said. Sulaiman urged the people to bank on his record and as a man who was fully prepared for the job having done his home work on what a Senator was capable of attracting to his constituency. “When I was appointed as the Special Adviser to Governor AbdulRahman Abdulrasaq on Health Matters, I was the only one that declared my asset and when I was leaving I also declared my asset. He said he would be willing to declare his asset again once he was elected as the senator to represent the people Lending his voice to Sulaiman’s candidacy, the SDP National Chairman, Alhaji Shehu Gabam, called for support for the party’s senatorial candidate in Kwara South. “We should support him so that he can come to the Senate. Please lobby for him and cast your vote for him. Gabam said any complaint about the candidate’s misdemeanour after he must have won the election should be reported to the party and as the chairman and appropriate action would be taken. “If there is any complain after electing our candidate as the Senator, you can report him to our party. The choice of Prof. Wake Sulaiman is the best,” the SDP Chairman added. Mr Saheed Popoola, the SDP House of Representatives candidate for Offa, Oyun and Ifelodun, who accompanied Sulaiman to the meeting, urged the people to vote en mass for the candidate. He said it should be replicated across board for all the candidates of the party, adding that this would bring real dividends of democracy to the district. “We have been in so many parties but no dividends of democracy because of interest, now we are in SDP to bring real democratic dividends,” he said He commended Sulaiman for his contribution to the district, adding that in spite of him not being a senator or holding any elective position, he had done eye operation for over 300 for the people. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) =========== Edited by Yinusa Ishola/Grace Yussuf