By Ella Anokam The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has underscored the need for Nigerians to understand the beauty and dynamism of culture as a veritable tool for unity and peaceful cohesion. The minister made this known on Sunday in Abuja at a dinner organised in honour of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, on his conferment with a Chieftaincy title of “Sarkin Kudun Hausa” by the Emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Farouk. Mohammed said that the honour on Sylva by the Daura Emirate Council was in recognition of his track records in the nation’s oil and gas sector. He said it was an indication that irrespective of tribe or religion, service to the nation knew no bounds. Others who gave goodwill messages included the Group Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, Malam Mele Kyari; the Chief Executive, Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission, Mr Gbenga Komolafe; and Crown Prince of Daura Emirate, Alhaji Muhammad Faruk. They extolled the qualities of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, describing him as a loyal ally of President Muhammadu Buhari who has worked for the growth of the nation’s petroleum industry. Sylva, the “Sarkin Kudun Hausa”, said the honour done to him was beyond his expectation and appreciated all who identified with him. “From far away Bayelsa State, I was honoured in Daura, Katsina State, an indication that there is a bond cut across culture, ethnicity and religion for national cohesion. “This is the essence of national unity and diversity. In Nigeria we have programmes like the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) as a programme which manages our diversity and also Federal Character Commission that manages our diversity too,” he said. He said the creation of Nigeria by the British amid diverse tribes and religion was no mistake as it was a unifying factor which sustained the nation with its vast and abundant natural resources. The event was attended by the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, and Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Management Board, Simbi Wabote, and other captains of industry. Others are the two Spokespersons to President Muhammadu Buhari, Malam Garba Shehu and Mr Femi Adesina, the Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Amb. Gabriel Aduda, and some Royal Fathers. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Sylva was turbaned on Dec. 22, 2022, as the SARKIN KUDUN HAUSA. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) =========== Edited by Muhammad Suleiman Tola