By Segun Giwa The Ondo State Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Bamidele Ologunloluwa, has called for more presence of national team coaches at league venues to improve chances of home based players in the national team. Ologunloluwa said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Akure. According to Ologunloluwa, the presence of national team coaches at match venues will give them room to share experiences with coaches of clubsides, especially those in the lower leagues. The commissioner,who appreciated the visit of the Super Eagles Coach, Jose Paseiro, urged him to look inwards for good players as the country is blessed with abundant talents. “I am happy to meet Jose Paseiro here in Akure, he is our guest and from what I heard, this is the second time he will be watching our team play, though, first time in Akure. “If we have more of these visits, it will be a morale booster and will raise hopes that more of our indigenous players will be called to the national teams. “It’s not that we don’t have home based players, but the coach coming down himself to watch them play shows commitment. “And if he intends to win the AFCON, he will need best of legs from the country mixed with those outside the country to achieve it. “I will also urge our coaches at the age grade levels to emulate the national team coach and look for materials in the country,” he said. The commissioner later expressed his appreciation to Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, for his support to ensure that youths in the state were employed and off the streets through sports. Earlier, the Ondo State FA Chairman, Dele Ajayi told NAN that the current board of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) was doing everything possible to bring back the lost glory of football. Ajayi said that part of what the board was doing was to ensure that national team coaches visit match venues and watch the league. The chairman said that soon, the country would reap the gains of the plan being put in place by the board. NAN reports that the commissioner met with Super Eagles Coach, Paseiro, in Akure during match day seven involving Sunshine Stars and Niger Tornadoes in Akure. Paseiro was in Akure to watch match day seven of the NPFL involving Sunshine Stars and Niger Tornadoes, which the home team won 2-0. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) =============== Edited by Gregg Mmaduakolam/Bayo Sekoni