By Polycarp Auta Most Rev. Michael Gokum, the Catholic Bishop of Pankshin in Plateau, has advised Nigerians to vote visionary and credible leaders in the forthcoming general elections. Gokum, spoke at the 2023 Lenten Campaign Launch of the diocese on Sunday in Pankshin. The bishop, who was represented by Rev. Fr. Paul Watpe, the Vicar General of diocese, decried the bad state of things in the nation, hence the need for good leaders emerge in the forthcoming polls. ”It is not a secret that Nigerians are suffering, a lot of things are not right in this country; today kidnapping, banditry, armed robbery, killings and other forms of insecurity have taken over our land. ”Nobody is safe, nothing seems to be working because of corruption and the self centredness of those in authority. ”Our roads have become dead traps, our farmers can’t go to their farms and we can’t sleep with our eyes closed. ”So, I want to call on Nigerians to vote visionary and credible leaders in the forthcoming elections; vote leaders who mean well and will help this country to attain its full potentials,” Gokum said. The bishop advised Nigerians not to sell their votes, but ensure they votes those with capacity to move this country to the next level ”I was told politicians are moving from house to house giving peanuts to people and to collect their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) ”Please, do not sell your votes because doing so makes you someone without a right; voting during elections is one of the ways we can chase away bad politicians,” he said. On the lenten campaign, the bishop said the event aimed at raising funds to support the the poor and less privileged ones in the society, particularly victims of attacks in rural communities. Gokum explained that the Justice Development and Peace Commission (JDPC), the social arm of the church had been providing succour to those in the need, hence the funds raised at the lenten campaign would be used for that purpose. The bishop advised Christians to regularly support the poor and needy in the society, adding that God rewards a cheerful giver. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 2023 Lenten campaign launch had the theme “Rebuilding Nigeria: A citizen Consensus at Engaging Post-Election Leaders”. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========== Edited by Maureen Atuonwu