By Chiazo Ogbolu   The Minister of Transportation, Mr Mu’azu Sambo, says the Electronic Cargo Tracking Note (E-CTN) scheme to be implemented by the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) will also be used to track oil export. Sambo said this when he paid a visit to the council in Lagos on Friday. He said that other departments of government had proposed to President Muhammadu Buhari to be allowed to track oil cargo. “The Federal Ministry of Transportation (FMOT) is the traditional role holder of cargo tracking; so, the FMOT is saddled with the responsibility through the NSC. “We should ensure that the confidence that Mr President placed in us is not displaced; so, you need to hit the ground running,” he said. Sambo said that he was convinced that the  NSC was ready, in terms of automation, for implementing the scheme. The minister listed some of the benefits of the e-CTN as improved port safety and national security, general real-time cargo statistics, generation of trade intelligence, facilitation of risk management and reduction of cost of doing business at ports. He said that over a period of 15 years, it would generate $1.35 billion and help Nigeria’s indirect revenue of over N33.64 billion. The minister said that NSC would be encouraged to continue to play its roles in the maritime sector. Sambo said that he was satisfied with the achievements recorded by the council. He urged the council to move to other designated areas within the next three months, with regard to inland dry ports, adding that it should  tackle any challenges. According to the minister, inland dry ports would be more beneficial when rail line are working. He urged the council to liaise with the Nigerian Railway Corporation in that regard. Earlier, Mr Rotimi Anifowoshe, Director, Corporate and Strategic Planning, NSC, while listing the achievements of the council, said that it was pursuing  its vision for a port and transport order. He said that the order would ensure that Nigeria’s maritime sector would remain efficient, transparent, competitive, inclusive and sustainable as well as be the hub in West and Central Africa. “The council has achieved progressive cost recovery in billions of naira due to the activities of the Port Standing Task Team (PSTT). “The PSTT has saved the country an average vessel demurrage of $20,000 per day from 2021 to 2022 which ultimately translates to the sum of $13,350,000 which is over N5.4 billion. “There is an improvement in the number of containers examined daily, from an average of 120 in the past, to 230 containers at present. “Due to the activities of the PSTT, Nigerian ports have become more transparent, predictable and consistent in line with international best practices,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the NSC was established by Decree 14 of 1978, now Nigerian Shippers Council Act, cap N133 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. It was appointed the Port Economic Regulator in February 2014. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)     Edited by Ijeoma Popoola