By Rukayat Moisemhe Pa Ayo Adebanjo, the leader of Afenifere, Yoruba socio-cultural group, has appealed to Nigerians to vote for the candidate of the Labour Party, Mr Peter Obi, in Saturday’s presidential election. Adebanjo made the appeal when he hosted the leadership of the Atunluse Initiatives, a socio-cultural and political group, on Tuesday in Lagos The Afenifere leader said the country is at a difficult period needed someone like Obi to rescue the current situation. He said it was the responsibility of every Nigerian to fight for its freedom. “We don’t have money to fight them, but we must do everything legitimately to free ourselves. “Because we agreed that we will be sharing the elective position between the North and the South, South-West had their share under Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, it went back to the North under Umaru Yar’Adua. “Goodluck Jonathan also did his own from South South and it went back to North, now coming back to South, it should be given to the South-East in the name of equity, justice and fairness,” he said. According to him, it is the turn of the South-East to produce the next president of the country. Also speaking, Mr Akinsola Akinbobola, Chairman of the Atunluse Initiatives, thanked the nonagenarian for his efforts at uniting Nigeria. Akinbobola and few leaders of Atunluse later had a closed door meeting with Pa Adebanjo and other Afenifere leaders. The Coordinator of the Atunluse Initiatives, Mr Olaseni Shalom, said the organisation would make their choice of presidential candidate known after its meeting with the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) delegation on Wednesday in Akure. Olaseni reiterated that Atunluse would remain resolute with the masses and for the advancement of good governance and better life for Nigerians. “We can only support a political party that shared same ideology with our organisation for the advancement of good governance and better life with majority of the citizens living in comfort,” he said. Samson Adesina, Spokesperson of the organisation, said Atunluse would make pronouncement to Nigerians which presidential candidate they would vote for when they conclude consultation. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========== Edited by Chinyere Joel-Nwokeoma