Alhaji Suleiman Isyaka, the newly inaugurated APC Director for North Central.   By Maureen Okon The Director-General All Progressives Congress (APC) Support Groups, Dr Nasiru Ladan, has called on the members of the party to remain focused to ensure its victory at all levels in the forthcoming elections. He spoke in Abuja at the inauguration of Alhaji Suleiman Isyaku as the Director of the Amalgamated APC Support Groups (AASG) for the North-Central Zone, on Sunday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Isyaku is also the Chairman of Tinubu/Shettima Ordained Movement. The event also witnessed the inauguration of North-Central zonal leadership and the unveiling of the national executives of AASG, which comprises major APC support groups. Ladan said AASG was established to rally support for the party and its presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and other candidates at all levels across Nigeria. He further added: “Tinubu’s outstanding leadership qualities, personal attributes and antecedents as a former two-term governor of Lagos State were enough evidence that Nigerians would be safe under his watch.” He described Tinubu and his running mate, Sen. Kashim Shettima, as ‘merchants of hope.’ “They are capable of redefining the meaning and concept of modern leadership in Nigeria. The duo would project their joint ticket as a transformation agenda.” Speaking also, Isyaka said the group was in search of credible leadership which could only be found in Tinubu, saying he would consolidate on the gains of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. He added that as members of a united front, the common goal was to mobilise eligible voters at the ward and unit levels, as well as engage major stakeholders across states of the federation. Isyaka expressed optimism that APC would win the forthcoming elections from top to bottom on Feb. 25 and March 11, respectively. The special guest of the event, Mrs Folasade Tinubu, the Iyaloja of Lagos State spoke on the need for the party members to be united to ensure its victory at the polls. She appreciated all the support groups for their immerse contributions at the various stages of the Tinubu/Shettima campaign rallies across the country. She said: “It is important to educate the electorate on how to vote so that their votes would be valid during the polls.” (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ================ Edited by Bashir Rabe Mani