Corps Marshal, FRSC, Dauda Biu   By Ibironke Ariyo The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has called on Public Servants including personnel of the Corps to always embark on regular physical exercise for efficient service delivery. The Corps Marshal, FRSC, Dauda Biu said this at a walking and jogging exercise to mark the 35th Anniversary of the FRSC on Saturday in Abuja. Biu said that the monthly exercise had improved the efficiency of officers and men adding that it had also reduced medical bills of the Corps. He added that the exercise was very important as it made one fit and healthy for work, especially public servants who sit between 9am and 4pm to carryout their duties effectively. “As an officer, you need to be healthy and fit for this our work. It makes one discharge duty without stress,” he said. Biu stressed that the commission would continue to improve on the welfare of personnel to cope with the new trend of transportation. According to him, FRSC will continue to come up with initiatives towards achieving UN Decade of Action on road safety 2021-2030. “The recent promotion and appointment of officers and men were a way of motivating the staff to enable them carry out their duty diligently. “This is also for the organisation to also progress and move forward and to deliver on our mandate of reducing crashes to the barest minimum. “35 years is a milestone. The organisation is mature now and this is a great achievement for us. We will continue to strive forward so that we can give our best to the general public,” he said. The FRSC boss commended the founding fathers of FRSC for their vision which had helped to bring effective traffic management in the country. He said that the Corps would continue to build on the achievements recorded by the past leaders of the corps in ensuring reduction in Road Traffic Crashes (RTCs) in Nigeria. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that FRSC was established in Feb. 1988 Highlights of the event were walking and Jogging exercise with a novelty match between female officers and female marshals which ended in a 2/2 draw with awards presented to them. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) =========== Edited by Abubakar Ahmed/Isaac Aregbesola