By Perpetua Onuegbu The Digital Rights and Information Partnership (DRIP) and Paradigm Initiative, have called on the Federal Government to safeguard digital rights of citizens. This is contained in a statement jointly signed by Mr Edozie Chukwuma of Digital Rights and Information Partnership (DRIP), and Miss Khadija El-Usman of Paradigm Initiative on Friday. The groups made the call at a news conference, organised to educate pressmen and the public on the importance of safeguarding digital rights. They said Electoral campaigns, voter education and civic discussions of candidates have been powered by both mass and digital media. “The use of the internet, social and mass media conveys the importance of digital rights and freedom of speech in Nigeria. “However, we know that the use of digital media has its unique challenges due to our dynamic political landscape. “Some common challenges faced are data protection issues, freedom of expression online, internet governance, regulation, shutdowns, online privacy, and surveillance. “Nigerians deserve protection against unlawful shutdowns as in the case of twitter ban in 2021,” the groups said. They further said voters should be given an enabling environment to vote and publicly express their opinion online. They said Digital Rights and Freedom Bill (DRFB), now at the National Assembly, is meant to address undue interference with digital privacy of any Nigerian citizen. It protects the rights to peaceful assembly and association online of all Nigerians through social networks and platforms. It ensures access to the internet and electronic media or communication of all people without being subject to discrimination or censorship. They said it would also protect right to opinion and expression online without any restriction and secure the privacy of all online learners, including students. Other issues it would tackle are Powers education and innovation by protecting information and communication technology, ensures that government recognizes the power of social media as a democratic advantage to reinforce democratic processes, drive efficiency, foster innovation, empower public sector workers and expose corruption. According to them, Nigeria is a signatory to the United Nations (UN) resolution that enshrines digital rights in human rights, the right to online privacy, freedom of expression, freedom to use and share information, right to peaceful assembly online, and the right to create public knowledge are all basic human rights. “As the anticipated voting day approaches, we call on the government to safeguard the civic space by curtailing unlawful shutdowns, and guarantee freedom of expression and assembly online of all Nigerians. “It is the civic responsibility of electoral agencies and government to ensure that the digital rights of Nigerians are not infringed upon during and after the presidential and gubernatorial elections. “We call for the protection of digital rights and online freedom as it is of democratic importance to ensure accountability and good governance from our government at all levels,” the group said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) PUO/VAO Edited by Vincent Obi