By Jacinta Nwachukwu The Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC) on Tuesday made a public presentation of the Electoral Education Curriculum and Teacher’s Guide for primary schools to strengthen the electoral process in Nigeria. Speaking at the event in Abuja, the Executive Secretary, NERDC, Prof. Ismail Junaidu said the aim was to strengthen the fabrics of the nation’s democracy for sustainable growth and development. Junaidu said that since the return of democracy in 1999, citizens’ participation in elections and the electoral process has remained an issue of concern. He also said that a known reason for this was the lack of adequate electoral knowledge. “Hence, promoting democratic electoral culture and developing civic skills are therefore necessary for well-informed and responsible participation in elections and in the electoral process,” Junaidu said. He said that this informed the initiative of the Council in collaboration with the International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES) to develop the Electoral Education Curriculum for primary schools in Nigeria. According to him, the curriculum, generally, is developed to expose the young learners to the rudiments of democracy and inculcate in them the knowledge, skills and attitudes necessary for active citizens’ participation in the democratic process. “Specifically, the curriculum is designed to achieve five key objectives, which are; to equip learners with basic knowledge of the concept of democracy, role of elections in democracy and good governance. “To develop consciousness of learners about their rights and obligation in electoral process; sensitise learners on the benefits of political participation to the stability of Nigeria. “As well as prepare learners for active participation in the electoral process,” Junaidu said. He said the choice of primary school learners was hinged on the core principle of using education as an instrument of socialisation for the young to assume adult roles for the good of the society. “Thus, the teaching of electoral education at this level will ensure that when children reach voting age, they would have already understood the fundamentals of active participation in the political and electoral process,” Junaidu said. He also emphasised that the electoral education curriculum was not another new subject in the school system. Junaidu said that the curriculum contents have been infused into the National Values Curriculum where the contents would be taught as part of the civic education theme. Similarly, the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, while commending the management of NERDC for the initiative said the curriculum had become a dynamic process for sustainable national development. Adamu, who was represented by Dr Claris Ujam, his Senior Assistant, (Technical) said “every time there are changes or developments happening around the world, the school curricula are affected”. “Therefore, the inclusion of concepts and contents of electoral education under Civic Education is in line with the drive under the Ministry’s Education for Change: A Ministerial Strategic Plan (MSP). “This is to enable the acquisition of citizenship values and skills through quality education. “The electoral education curricular contents constitute a remarkable step to create positive change in the election landscape and political development,” he said. On his part, the President, IFES, Anthony Banbury said its contribution to the project was to strengthen Nigeria’s electoral process through effective teaching and learning of civic education in primary schools. “To catching them young, the revised curriculum is a hallmark innovation that will introduce children and youth very early to the concept, processes, ethics, and values of democratic systems and governance. “It will be essential for the young people’s orientation to initiate a shift from the existing norms. “In the long term, it will increase civic participation and knowledge of democratic systems and values, as the children of today become the adults and the voters of tomorrow,” Banbury said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========= Edited by Razak Owolabi