By Vivian Emoni The Miners Association of Nigeria (MAN) on Thursday said the association would establish solid mineral plants in the six geopolitical zones of the country. The Acting President of the association, Alhaji Musa Muhammad, said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. Muhammad said that the association would start the establishment first in Kogi, adding that there were good number of mineral resources in the state. He said that the effort was to show example of good leadership as well as support government to promote the development of the country. He said that the establishment of the plants would also bring investors and create job opportunities to the youth. According to him, the essence of establishing the plant in the zones is to attract more investment, thereby creating many opportunities to the people. “The association wants to show good examples to our people as the effort will improve businesses and other opportunities in the zones. “The establishment will bring great advantage to Nigerians and when its processed, the chain value will be achieved. “Our aim is to be established in the six geo-political zones; the association is starting the move in Kogi state starting with solid minerals which are gold and processing plants,” he said. Muhammad said that the association had gained recognition from the public because of its achievement. He said that the MAN had integrated women into the industry, adding that before, “it was only men affairs”. He said that the women had also formed their own associations to promote gender issues and other activities among them. The miners boss said that only the registered members of the association were being carried along in the mining industry. He called on those members that were not fully registered to do the right thing as such would help them have access to any form of assistant from the association. Muhammad said that one of the objectives of the association was to develop the mines and make the mining sector more scientific for sustainable mining production. He said that the aim was to ensure safety and efficiency in the mining industry. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) =========== Edited by Vivian Ihechu