Kogi A-G’s wife, Hajiya Zainab Jibrin, distributing food items, Rappers and Cash gifts to indigent women in 4 communities in Kogi LGA on Sunday. By Thompson Yamput The Wife of Kogi Accountant General (AG), Hajiya Zainab Jibrin, on Sunday distributed food items, rappers and cash gifts worth millions of Naira to indigent women in Koton Large near Lokoja, Kogi. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the distributions were carried out at the Palaces of the traditional rulers of the four communities in Kogi Local Government Area of the state. The benefiting communities, some of which were affected by the 2022 flood in Kogi, included Koton-Karfi, Gegu Beki, Uhana and Edaha. During the occasion, Hajiya Zainab said “this gesture is my own way of showing love and support to vulnerable and indigent women within these four communities”.   “I am aware of what some of these women are passing through right now, coupled with the Naira redesign.   “This has always been my desire to reach out to the needy and support my fellow women with the little I have and as part of the dividend of democracy.   “I am appreciative of the kind hearted and generous husband God has blessed me with, because he has always been supportive and a pillar to my vision and charity work, ” she said.   She expressed the hope that the little she gave out would go along way to cushion the effect of the present economic hardship being experienced in the areas. Responding, Alhaji Abdulrazak Isah-Koto, the Ohimeje of Igu kingdom; Alhaji Muhammad Alhassan-Abba, Chief of Gegu Beki and Alhaji Isa Ohikwo-Aliyu, Chief of Uhana communities thanked the AG’s wife for what they described as the kind gesture.   Isah-Koto told the charity team that Hajia Zainab’s show of love to her fellow women at such a critical time like this was commendable.   The royal fathers, however, admonished well-to-do Nigerians to emulate the character and gesture of Hajia Zainab and put smiles on the faces of poor people in the villages.   “Hajiya Zainab, you’re indeed a true daughter that every community could be proud of, ” the royal father said.   One of the beneficiaries, Mallama Rakiyat Usman, a mother of five, thanked Hajia Zainab for remembering poor women for such a good gesture at a time like this.   “I can tell you now, my joy is unmeasurable over this gesture, which is very timely, especially with the challenges being faced by the Naira notes redesign.   “The food items, cash gift and rapper I got here today, will indeed go a long way to help my family just as families of other beneficiaries, ” she said.   NAN reports that at each point of distribution of the items, the benefitting women who were full of joy, sang praises and danced around in appreciation. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Abdulfatai Beki/Idris Abdulrahman