U.S. President Joe Biden encourages all Nigerians, irrespective of  religion, region, or ethnicity, to vote, exercise their fundamental freedom and make their voices heard at the 2023 General Elections According to him, the U.S. supports a peaceful and transparent election process that reflects the will of the people of Nigeria, of which elections are a fundamental part of a functioning democracy. Biden in a statement issued by United States Diplomatic Mission to Nigeria, Public Affairs Section, on Thursday, emphasised that all Nigerians deserved this chance to choose their future freely and fairly. “I commend yesterday’s peace accord in Nigeria, signed by the political parties and candidates running in Nigeria’s presidential election on Feb. 25. “By signing this pledge, the parties and candidates have committed to accept the results of the election, as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission, and to support a peaceful transition of power. “Elections are a fundamental part of a functioning democracy, and all Nigerians deserve this chance to choose their future – freely and fairly. “While the United States does not support any single candidate or party, we strongly support a peaceful and transparent process that reflects the will of the people of Nigeria. “ On election day, I encourage all Nigerians – no matter their religion, region, or ethnicity – to exercise this fundamental freedom and make their voices heard – including young voters, many of whom may be heading to the ballot box for the first time.’’ According to the statement, the U.S. stands with the Nigerian people as they chart a path toward a more democratic, prosperous, and secure future. “I appreciate President Buhari’s firm commitment that the will of the people will be respected. “And in the coming days, I encourage voters to remain peaceful and patient as their ballots are tallied, and urge the political parties and candidates to live up to their pledge,’’ Biden is quoted as saying. (NAN) www.nannews.ng   Edited by Vivian Ihechu