By Ibironke Ariyo Some of the Newly promoted personnel of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) have pledged safer roads for all motorists across the nation in the year 2023 and beyond.   They made the pledge in a separate interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Abuja following the massive promotions of  personnel recently approved by FRSC board.   They also lauded the Corps Marshal, Dauda Biu for prioritising the welfare of the staff and elevating them to various ranks in the just concluded promotion examinations.   The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that FRSC had announced the promotion of 3, 628 marshals and appointment of two Deputy Corps Marshals (DCMs) on Thursday.   Biu was appointed as the FRSC Corps Marshal by President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday, Dec. 30, 2022 after he had acted as the CM between July and December 2022.   Speaking, Mrs Nwamaka Efobi, who was promoted from the rank of Superintendent Route Commander (SRC) to Chief Route Commander (CRC) said she had never experienced such joy since her service year.   Efobi said, “I feel good and happy. I feel lifted and I know that truly change has come. I will say that with this new rank, it is more work and dedication.   “We have never experienced this kind of joy before. In the history of FRSC, we have not seen such. We pray that God bless the Corps Marshal and honour him. We will ensure the roads are continually safe for all,’’ she said.   Also, Mr Charles Ajayi, Route Commander, said that his years of input yielded out for him, and pledged his commitment to saving lives and properties.   Ajayi said, “Although I might be an administrative staff, but it is a structure that works together.   “With this new position, I will put in more effort to ensure that everything goes well with the Corps and that road users enjoy safety at all cost,’’ he said.   Speaking, Mrs Akintoye Akpo, Deputy Route Commander (DRC), said that it is God that gave her the promotion and assured of maximum efforts in delivering the mandate of the Corps.   She urged other personnel not to relent in their work as promotion required more work and dedication to duty.   Mrs Modupe Adefope and Mrs Remaliah who were promoted to the rank of Corps Commander commended Biu for counting them worthy of the promotion.   They also pledged to give their best to ensure that sanity was restored on the highways.   In a telephone interview, A.M Ajayi, Zonal Accident Investigation officer in charge of Crash Investigation, Lagos, said the promotion was fair and evenly distributed.   Ajayi also promoted to the rank of Chief Route Commander (CRC) said that a lot of staff were happy at the massive promotion.   “If this continues, there will be a lot of improvement on welfare, activities and productivity as well,’’ he said.   Reacting to the jubilation from the FRSC personnel, the Corps Public Relations Officer (CPEO) Assistant Corps Marshal (ACM) Bisi Kazeem, said that Biu had promised to create motivation for the entire staff to deliver on their mandate.   Kazeem said that the promotion in the history of FRSC was the first of its kind as it cuts across all states with officers from ARC to CC.   “On assumption, Biu spoke and mentioned specifically about welfare. He has a feeling that if they are motivated and that if their welfare packages are given, there will not be any need to pursue people to work.   “He also believed that promotion will serve as a motivation for them to do more in their work.   “He started by paying so many backlog of transfer allowances and this one which he did now on promotion in the history of FRSC is the first of its kind,’’ he said.  (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Ifeyinwa Okonkwo/Ismail AbdulAziz