TAJBank, a fast growing non-interest financial institution has reiterated its commitment to deepen and sustain its penetration across the geo-political zones across the country. To this end, the bank opened a new branch in Kano. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Zoo Road, Kano branch came barely a week after the opening of the bank’s Apapa-Lagos branch. According to a statement by TAJBank’s Managing Director, Mr Hamid Joda said that the management decided to further consolidate on the bank’s operations in the state to support Nigerians who desire to have banking services delivered to them at no interest. He said that it would also offer them opportunities to grow their enterprises and meet the needs of their families. “As you may be aware, we just opened our Apapa-Lagos branch a few days ago. “Coming to Kano to open this new branch, along with the existing ones here, is a demonstration of our commitment to offer what no other bank is offering now to customers. “I want to assure you that, as our operations mantra say, our only interest is you our highly valued customers,” he said. The managing director said that with the licencing of TAJBank by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to operate nationwide, more of TAJBank’s branches would be opened before the end of the first quarter of 2023. Meanwhile, a prominent customer, Alhaji Ali Balarabe, said that the experiences of customers at TAJBank’s branches everywhere attested to the fact that the bank was out to really serve its customers in ways no other bank was doing now. Balarabe commended the bank for its strength in terms of customer-friendly services, strong information and Communications Technology (ICT) assets and highly skilled and courteous staff. “I have been part of TAJBank’s sweet stories over the past three years “Given the international and local awards by this bank so far, I can boldly say that it is the bank setting the pace in innovative products packaging and services delivery to customers. “I encourage all Kano big business owners, MSMEs entrepreneurs, artisans, traders and individuals to do business with TAJBank and they will never regret doing so,” he said. The Executive Director of the bank, Mr Sherif Idi, said that identifying with TAJBank brand was the surest guarantee to a fulfilling future for customers in the country. “Do it today, you will not regret it,’’ he said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ======= Edited by Ese E. Eniola Williams