By Jacinta Nwachukwu PRNigeria, a non-governmental organisation has called on security agencies and other relevant stakeholders to be proactive in order to stem any violent threat to the 2023 general elections. Mr Yushau Shuaib, the Chief Executive Officer of the organisation made the call at a news conference on Wednesday in Abuja. Shuaib said criminal activities across the country like kidnapping, terrorism and violent separatist agitations among others might affect the peaceful conduct of the elections. He added that these negative activities might occur, “if security agencies and other relevant stakeholders are not proactive in stemming them”. According to Shuaib, there are reports of politically – motivated killings in some states of the federation. “In November 2022 for instance, the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, reported that there were 52 cases of political violence across 22 states in one month. “Between 2019 and 2022, hoodlums attacked more than 50 offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC), in 15 States. “Also, there are cases of destruction of billboards, campaign vehicles, offices and other properties. Several campaign rallies have been violently disrupted and convoys attacked,” he said. Speaking on PRNigeria’s investigations and findings, Mukhtar Madobi, Staff Writer, Emergency Digest, observed that the rash of unscientific opinion polls and partisan projections had heightened public anxiety. Madobi further said that this could influence extreme optimism among candidates and their supporters, which could undermine national security. “Since some electorates are of the view that their votes do not really count on the assumption that the outcome of most elections are predetermined, voter apathy may still be an issue in some places,” he said. Madobi recommended that political parties and their supporters should adhere to electoral rules and be quick to embrace the spirit of sportsmanship, whenever the outcome of any election was announced. “There is the need for political candidates to demonstrate mature and exemplary leadership by eschewing inciting utterances and actions capable of provoking social unrest. “Also, community leaders should preach the gospel of peace and unity, while encouraging youths to shun political thuggery and other forms of violence. “There is the need for individual communities to support the government in launching sensitisation campaigns and advocacies on tolerance and peaceful co-existence through appropriate communication channels,” he said. Abdulsalam Mahmud, Deputy Editor PRNigeria said that the general public should at their discretion avoid any form of violence that might scuttle the successful conduct of the election and undermine national security. Mahmud urged the security agencies to remain steadfast in discharging their constitutional mandates of protecting lives and properties before, during and after the elections. On his part, the Force Public Relations Officer, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi while commending the organisation for the initiative, assured the general public of the security agencies’ readiness towards ensuring peaceful election. Adejobi said the security apparatus would continue to sustain inter-agency collaboration and synergy to foster quick emergency response as well as effective joint operations. PRNigeria is a subsidiary of award-winning communication firm, Image Merchants Promotions Ltd.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ============ Edited by Yakubu Uba/Razak Owolabi