By Georgina Adegbie The 24th edition of the IBB Ladies Open Golf Championship will be better than any one before it, the organisers said on Wednesday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the competition gets underway on Thursday at the IBB International Golf and Country Club in Abuja and will end on Sunday. The organisers are expecting no fewer than 160 lady golfers to participate, drawn from several clubs across the country, as well as other African countries such as Uganda, Ghana and Botswana. Captain of the club’s Ladies Section, Joy Ikwue, told newsmen that all was set for a successful event that would “set several hearts beating with full excitement.” “This event is the high point of every Lady Captain’s tenure at this club, and I am excited about the high number of those who have registered to play. “This is in spite of dire economic difficulties across the world and the upcoming Nigerian elections,” she said. Ikwue assured that all had been put in place for an exciting outing for all the participants, with several side attractions lined up for the four-day event. “From the ceremonial tee-off on Thursday to the closing closing on Thursday, attractive side events have been lined up to make the competition not only sporting but also social. “We have events such as jazz session, tour of the club and some places in the city, as well as a good taste of our hospitality with good wine and food. “All these have been put in place to appreciate the value people place on golf as a game, sport and way of life,” the lady captain said. Speaking also on the event, Maryanne Ngban, a member of the Ladies Golf Section, told newsmen the competition was an opportunity for networking for all participants, especially for those visiting. “It gives an opportunity also for an exchange of ideas, and helps us as well to move the club to another level,” she said. The section’s Competition Secretary, Jane Ahmed, also told newsmen that the competition had been designed to accommodate all levels of golfers in both the male and female categories. “The competition is open to players with handicap 0 to 28 and will hold from Friday to Sunday when the winners will emerge, on the basis of gross. “There are also competitions for special categories of players, with a contest for those of handicap 29 to 36, and veteran ladies cutting across all handicaps for host club’s ladies only. “Then, there will be those competing in the guests category, which is for the host club’s men and tournament sponsors,” she said. NAN reports that the competition will end with a prize presentation and closing ceremony on Sunday.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) BOG/OLAL ========= (Edited by Olawale Alabi)