By Vivian Emoni The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) has urged relevant stakeholders to collaborate for strong standard services in the mineral sector. The Technical Adviser, NACCIMA mining group, Mr Auwal Bununu, said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Monday. Bununu said that the collaboration would provide standard services in the sector and also enhance its machinery and technical services. According to him, the mining group is an arm of NACCIMA responsible for implementation of its private sector driven strategy for development of mining and other extractive sector. He said that some of the objectives of the association was to ensure the creation of conducive atmosphere for pursuit of commerce, industry and all other forms of economic activities of interest to private sectors. He said that NACCIMA was aimed at promoting, protecting and developing all matters affecting business as well as contributing ideas for overall economic stability of the nation. The technical adviser said that the association champion the course of business through its advocacy role and influenced public policies that promote free enterprise. ”NACCIMA is also aimed at improving mineral and metal trade as well as leakage of the mining sector to other industrial and manufacturing sector of the economy. “The public and private sectors of the mining industry should collaborate to provide standard services on mineral, machinery and technical for effective development in the sector. “It is an important potential of the mining sector to provide Nigeria with more revenue, job opportunities, strengthening the industry and so many others,” he said. The technical adviser further said that NACCIMA was currently collaborating with the government on policies, licensing, security and payment of royalties. “The activities of mining in the country has been very cumbersome, we are working with the government to formalise its policy that will enhance the activities. “If the collaboration with the government will be effective, it will bring more investment into the sector, thereby, enhancing development in the country,” he said. Bununu called on the government to cooperate with private sectors to monitor unlicensed miners in the country. He however, advised the private sectors to adhere to the laws regulating its activities in the industry. “My advice is that the miners should make sure that they obey the rules and regulations that guides the activities in the mining industry,” he said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ================ Edited by Chinyere Bassey/Vivian Ihechu