Cross session of a mid- term review meeting on “ Enhancing Anti-corruption and Social Inclusive Reform Initiative in Nigeria“     By Gabriel Agbeja Some Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) have collaborated with Federal Government to strengthen governance by promoting anti-corruption policy in the country. Rev. David Ugolor, the Executive Director, Africa Network for Environment and Economic Justice (ANEEJ), said this at a mid- term review meeting on “ Enhancing Anti-corruption and Social Inclusive Reform Initiative in Nigeria“ on Monday in Abuja. Ugolor said that the NGOs were ready to deepen effort to sustain government initiative to tackle corruptions. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the project is being implemented by ANEEJ and eight partners as part of the Strengthening Civil Advocacy and Local Engagement (SCALE) project. SCALE project is a 5-year project being implemented by Palladium and its resource partners with funds from United States Agency for International Development (USAID). NAN further reports that the project is designed to enhance local civil society organisasation`s ability to be positive and responsible change agents in Nigeria. Ugolor said that such assistance from CSOs to sustain government initiatives would improve integrity of the Nigeria among the comity of nations. He said the 5-year project was to promote and engage in anti-corruption policy reforms in Abia, Edo, Delta, Imo, Ondo, Rivers and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. According to him, project is also designed to address reform issues within the interventionist agencies set up to develop the Niger Delta region by both the Federal and State governments such as Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Other places he mentioned were the oil and gas producing areas development commissions in Abia, Delta Edo, Imo and Ondo. He said the CSOs considered the project as important to promote and engage in anti-corruption policy reforms at both the national and sub-national levels with the ultimate goals of strengthening governance to deliver development goals to citizens. He further said that the project would contribute to the eradication of corruption in Nigeria by addressing poverty and inequality among Nigerian people. “The cluster organisations are 21st Century Community Empowerment for Youth and Women Initiative, Abuja; Community Empowerment and Development Initiative (CEDI), Wari, Delta State and Community Heritage Watch for Development Initiative, (KAI) Akure, Ondo State. “ Christian Fellowship and Care Foundation (CFCF), Owerri, Imo State; Foundation for Environmental Rights, Advocacy and Development (FENRAD), Aba, Abia State; Gender and Development Action (GADA) Port- Harcourt, Rivers States. “Also, Joint National Association of Persons with Disabilities (JONAPWD) Edo State Chapter and the New Apostolic Centre for Development , Benin City, Edo State,” he said. ANEEJ boss said the cluster was leading an online campaign against vote buying to mainstream anti- corruption into the upcoming 2023 general elections. According to him, a town hall meeting with political parties and candidates was held in December 2022. “ For them to tell Nigerians their plans to fight corruption if elected to office and to mainstream anti-corruption issues into their manifesto as they campaign across the country,” he added. ANEEJ Project Manager, Mr Innocent Edemhanria, said ANEEJ together with other eight cluster members commenced the implementation of the project in February 2022. He further said the project had implemented several activities to include- baseline research, capacity-building workshops for CSOs, media, private sector, PWDs and host community groups on several issues. Other activities he said were development of advocacy plan to support the passage of pending anti-corruption bills, engagement with Federal Ministry of Justice, National Assembly, Sub- national government, oil and gas commissions among other. “ We are happy to inform you that the project has achieved some level of result, as some of the anti-corruption bills the project worked on have been passed and signed into law by the president. “ The proceed of crime (Recovery and Management) Act 2022 and the Money Laundering Prevention and Prohibition Act 2022 are key legislations to support anti-corruption in Nigeria. “ We are also happy with the extension of the implementation of National Anti-corruption Strategy,“ he said. (NAN) (wwwnannews.ng) ========= Edited by Isaac Aregbesola