Some executives of KPA By Angela Atabo The Kwararafa Peoples’ Assembly (KPA), a socio-cultural organisation, on Friay called on its people to embrace peace and unity to enable them uphold  the defunct Kwararafa Empire’s legacies. The organisation’s interim National President,Prof. Emmanuel Oloja- Ejeikwu, made the appeal at a news briefing in Abuja. The theme of he conference was ”The Kwararafa Empire:The Journey ,The History ,The People ,Their Tribulations and Their Future in Nigeria’’. “We have been neglected and ignored over the years, referred to, and treated as minorities, which we are not. “ The solution to this is for us to reunite and come together as one family, imbibe the spirit of strong brotherhood and the spirit of being our brothers’ keepers. “The essence of the movement, KPA, is to pull the people of the Kwararafa Empire together ideologically, so that we can tell the world that we are no longer a willing tool, neither are we a conquered territory. “We are the majority, not minorities as we are referred to in Nigeria; we intend to overcome this battle peacefully using our PVCs through our electoral strength,” he said. According to Oloja- Ejeikwu, the erstwhile Kwararafa Empire occupied at least 27 of the present 36 States, including the FCT. She said added that  the people constituted  about 25 per cent of Nigeria’s population,and had over the years ‘determined who emerged winner of  presidential elections in the country.’ Oloja- Ejeikwu said that  the organisation would embark on sensitisation  of its communities,  villages, elders, women,youth groups,and market women on need for peace and unity. “The Kwararafa people need to be given the due recognition in  the political space and socioeconomic development,’’ he sad. Oloja- Ejeikwu said that it was  important for  the people of the old Kwararafa Empire to remain as one indivisible Nigeria. Dr Nanchak Nirizing ,Turakin Gari Langtang North Local Government, Plateau, called on Nigerians to elect leaders with the capabilities  to revive the nation’s economy,promote peace and unity. . Nirizing said: “It is imperative for Nigerians to know that without peace nothing works . “A peaceful environment can only be sustained with a ruler that is determined,knows the people and their problems and can solve them. “We advise every Nigerian that this time around ,it should not be money inducements, tribe or religion, but it should be about who will deliver us.” Alhaji Ali Na-Ali,Osekalago of Benue, enjoined  the people to unite in order to attract development. He said: “I advise my followers to elect credible leaders, that will lead us very well and take us to the promise land.” He called on the citizens to shun material and monetary inducements and vote based oncapabilities for the good of all . Mr Omale Tanko,Aku-gyogo of Agyogo, said that the conference was meant to bring together the people to chart the way forward for peace and progress . “We have to join hands together so that the old Kwararafa empire can be sustained,”he said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ATAB/AVU/BRM ================= Edited by Victor Asije/Bashir Rabe Mani