By Abiodun Azi Ms Ayomide Ajibola, an ambassador of Life Planning for Adolescents and Youths (LPAY), has urged young adults to take advantage of sexual and reproductive health information and services. Ayomide, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) said that LPAY served as a link for adolescents and youths to gain easy access to sexual reproductive health services. She said that the LPAY education was based on how to access self services on life skills in Primary Health Care Center (PHC) across Lagos State. She said that LPAY ambassadors acted as linkage to adolescents where they could access services and options available to them. According to her, these include contraceptives, condoms, pills, injectables and implants for their age. The LPAY ambassador said that it was pertinent for parents and guardians to play active roles in making sure that their young adults had an active health system and life saving skills. She appealed to parents to work and cooperate with LPAY ambassadors, especially when working with their young adults. Ayomide stated that adolescents and youths could access services in PHCs in Lagos and some organisations like Action Health Incorporated. She noted that The Challenge Initiative (TCI), an NGO, was behind building the capacity of LPAY ambassadors. The capacity includes youth engagement, voice and accountability for adolescents as well as youth sexual and reproductive health programmes. TCI also provides platform for the integration of LPAY into structures of the State such as the technical working group, advocacy groups, amongst others. NAN reports that TCI promotes sustainability and local ownership while demonstrating the feasibility of long-term investment in reproductive health. TCI also provides platform for the integration of LPAY into structures of the State such as the technical working group, advocacy groups, etc. Managed by the Johns Hopkins Center for Communication Programs (CCP), TCI’s Nigeria hub accelerates the scale up of the Nigerian Urban Reproductive Health Initiative (NURHI) approaches. It also provides guidance to self-selected states, local government areas (LGAs) and partners willing to invest in family planning. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)   Edited by Kamal Tayo Oropo/Vivian Ihechu