By Alex Enebeli The PDP governorship candidate in Enugu State, Dr Peter Mbah, has pledged to sustain the World Bank’s Agro-Processing, Productivity Enhancement and Livelihood Improvement Support (APPEALS) project. Mbah, represented by the state Commissioner for Rural Development, Dr Kingsley Udeh, disclosed this in Enugu on Tuesday during the flag off ceremony of the implementation of “Women and Youths Empowerment Programme”, by Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. According to him, he will sustain various agriculture programmes by Gov. Ugwuanyi and also expand them to accommodate others who are not in the programme. “In my manifesto, agriculture is one of my focal areas because it is part of the tools we use as government to fight poverty and create jobs for the teeming youths. “By God’s grace, we will use it as a tool to lift a lot of people in the state from poverty because our target is to attain a zero per cent poverty rate in Enugu state, and that is achievable,” Mbah said. He said he would partner international community, agric developing partners, both locally and internationally, to promote and improve agriculture in the state. The PDP governorship candidate further said that he would pursue special agricultural processing zone, introduce technology for modern agriculture and reform agricultural system in the state. He, however, congratulated the beneficiaries of the APPEALS project, especially women and youths. “Please note that there are millions of people in Nigeria that cannot be beneficiaries but of course, based on various factors, including very stringent processes that are followed, you were selected. “We believe that we will use this opportunity given to you to make the best out of your life, especially in the area that you have chosen in agriculture. “You will not only feed yourself, you will feed the nation,” Mbah prayed for them. He urged the beneficiaries to vote for him to sustain continuity in governance, saying,” What we are witnessing here today and the good work being done through APPEALS project, can be sustained.” (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)   ================ Edited by Chinyere Bassey/Vincent Obi