By Emmanuel Afonne A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), the United Global Resolve for Peace (UGRFP) urged security agents to go all out against vote buyers as Nigerians exercise their franchise in Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections. Chairman of the organisation, Mr Shalom Olaseni who made the call in a statement on Friday, reiterated the need for peace to reign and votes to count. Olaseni stressed the need for a free and fair election and urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agents to ensure the conclusion of the democratic process was devoid of any influence. “Votes should not be traded off like a market-place commodity. “Vote buying continues to play a regrettable role in the electoral process of Nigeria as decried by Federal and State Governments, the Civil Society Community and well-meaning members of the Nigerian public. “UGRFP has always maintained the opposition that an incentive for vote buying is the laxity of laws to tackle same and the compromise of certain state actors and agencies who stand aloof as the democratic process is abused. “Increased vigilance by relevant state agencies, prompt arrest, detention and public naming, shaming and prosecution of complicit parties and candidates involved in this act will go a long way in deterring those given to these tendencies,” he said. According to Olaseni, INEC must do all within its powers to protect democracy in the country. “The bedrock of any democratic exercise is a test of the reliability of the instruments of state charged with the periodic transfer of power through a change of government at the polls. “The INEC are thus saddled with the enormous and significant responsibility of conducting an electoral process that is not just fair but is seen to be fair by all. “UGRFP expresses the hope that staff and other ad-hoc members of the commission are properly advised against lending their authority to abuse and the subjugation of the will of the Nigerian people. “It is also hoped that they are sufficiently trained and equipped to undertake tomorrow’s election and others.” The group chairman applauded the signing of the second Peace Accord by the candidates and parties competing in the presidential election, noting that the move was expected to forestall violence that could affect the credibility of the polls. He also called on parties to respect electoral laws and institutions and take a firm stand against violence and hate speech by their supporters, while security agencies should prevent and deter attacks against INEC facilities, materials and personnel. “Law enforcement authorities should remain visibly neutral and respond in a proportionate manner to any election-related incidents. “We further advise the Nigerian people to vote and defend their votes through eternal vigilance as the decisions and sacrifices of tomorrow will either make or mar Nigeria in the next four years.” (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========== Edited by Vivian Ihechu