PHCs By Amina Ahmed Bauchi, Feb. 11, 2023 (NAN) Yobe government says it has established Primary Healthcare Facilities (PHCs) in 138 of the 178 wards of the state, to enhance access to quality healthcare services at the grassroots. Alhaji Mohammed Mamman, Director-General, Media and Public Affairs to Gov. Mai Mala Buni, stated this at the closing ceremony of a two-day workshop for Local Government Information Officers, on Saturday in Bauchi. According to him, the Buni administration had upgraded eight PHCs to general hospitals, and four general hospitals to specialist hospitals. He said the government also established Nigeria’s largest Maternity and Childcare Complex, to stem maternal and child mortality in the state. The projects, he said, impacted positively on the lives of border communities, who hitherto access healthcare services in Niger Republic. The DG said the legacy projects of the Buni administration changed the narratives as Nigeriens were now crossing over to receive medical care in the new facilities in the state. “In spite of the security challenge, the COVID-19 lock down and the lean resources at its disposal, government reconstructed most schools destroyed by the Boko Haram insurgency and established new ones. “This administration has executed at least one verifiable project in each of the 178 political wards of the state,” he said. Commenting on the training programme, Mamman described the exercise as timely which required the information officers to publicise the feat achieved by the administration towards improving the lives of the people of the state. He said the exercise would also improve information management and service delivery in the 17 local government councils of the state. “Therefore, as information managers, we have great responsibilities and duty to promote peace and peaceful coexistence, especially at this moment of our national life as we go into elections. “You have great roles in showcasing the laudable achievements recorded by the Buni administration in the last three and half years. “We should also contribute to the reconstruction and recovery process of the state government in its efforts to rebuild the state”. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that information officers drawn from 17 LGAs of the state attended the exercise. The exercise was being organised by Yobe Ministry for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in collaboration with the Directorate of Press Affairs Government House, Damaturu. The theme of the workshop is “Retooling Local Government Information Officers for Informing Democratic Dividend in Yobe State”. (NAN) (www.nannewsngr.com) AE/RSA ======= Edited by Rabiu Sani-Ali