Cross section of participants at Gender Based Violence programme in Iju, Akure North Local Government Area of Ondo State on Thursday   By Segun Giwa The Ondo State government on Thursday said it would henceforth prosecute families shielding perpetrators of Gender Based Violence (GBV) in the state. Mrs Bolanle Afolabi, Executive Director, Ondo State Agency Against Gender Based Violence (OSAA-GBV), said this on Thursday in Iju, Akure North Local Government area of the state, during an advocacy on Gender Based violence. The programme was in collaboration with Westminster Foundation For Democracy. Afolabi said the agency would continue to implement policy to protect the rights of women and children and safeguard them against all forms of abuse in the state. She said that families or anybody shielding perpetrators of GBV would be prosecuted for conspiracy against the law. In her presentation on Violence Against Person Prohibition (VAPP)- Law and Draft of Child Protection and Safeguarding policy, the Guest speaker, Mrs Oluwatoba Olaifa, emphasised the need to enforce law that protect children and women against abuse in the state. Olaifa said people must know about the law, “hence the need for people at the grassroots to steer clear of breaking the laws.” She warned the people against harmful practices against children and women. The Senior Special Assistant, office of the Wife of the Governor on Gender Matters, Mrs Temitope Daniyan said the advocacy was to reduce cases of Gender Based Violence in the rural areas. Earlier, the Country Director of WFD, Mr Adebowale Olorunmola, said that the programme was taken to the grassroots to pass the message to the people and educate them on the penalties of breaking the law. Olorunmola said that the organisation would continue to strengthen ties with Ondo State government to ensure that the children’s rights and safety are protected towards a safe society. In his remarks, the Chairman of Akure North Local Government, Mr Bankole Ogbesetore, appreciated the state government for taking the programme to the grassroots. Ogbesetore, represented by a Director at the local government, Mr Adejumo Adewale, said the programme was appreciated by the people in the community and would disseminate the information to all communities in the area. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ======== Edited by Tayo Ikujuni