By Ahmed Ubandoma Stakeholders in the Humanitarian sector have underscored the importance of establishing a National Mine Action Centre aimed at identifying and supporting persons affected by the devastating impact of mine action. The stakeholders made this known at the inaugural meeting of Humanitarian Mine Action organised by the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development and other development partners on Wednesday in Abuja. They said that the centre would provide the necessary psycho-social support to victims of mine action in the country. The Permanent Secretary of the ministry,  Dr. Nasir Sani Gwarzo expressed optimism that the National Mine Action Centre, when established, would cater to the humanitarian needs of  victims. Gwarzo said the initial reason for the creation of the National Humanitarian Mine Action Committee, was to identify and support persons affected by the devastating impact of mine action. “ That’s why we established the committee; this committee will coordinate all the necessary preparation that will eventually lead to the establishment of the centre. “The  ministry had earlier concentrated on social support through the welfare, and poverty alleviation of the vulnerable populace. “ Now, the ministry has widened its scope after three years, all these programmes have been well achieved and even institutionalised. “ What remains now is to look at other activities that also need attention and one of those clear activities is that of Humanitarian Mine Action. “Nigeria is plagued with so many epicentres of mine activities and it’s at the rate of almost one per week, you get a mine explosion somewhere, especially in the places that have experienced some social unrest. “The initial letters that we have written to so many stakeholders and partners and the responses were overwhelming and very encouraging. “ I believe that in the near future, Nigeria will be at a very comfortable stage of implementing this mine action“ he said. A retired Group Captain , Sadeeq Shehu, who is the coordinator of the humanitarian mine action committee, expressed his commitment towards supporting the actualisation of the centre. In his presentation,  the Director, Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention, Mr Jaun Carlos Ruan,  reiterated the need for stakeholders to ensure multi-sectoral approach to strenthen Nigeria’s efforts to tackle cases associated with mine action. Other stakeholders, who spoke at the event were unanimous on need for government to provide effective legal framework and a support action that would ensure full implementation of the humanitarian mine action for the benefit of all victims. They also agreed that the establishment National Mine Action Centre would support victims affected by the devastating impact of mine action, especially in war-torn areas.  (NAN).(www.nannews) Edited by Grace Yussuf