By Sumaila Ogbaje The Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Adm. Zubeiru Gambo, has warned officers and ratings against any act of indiscipline and human rights abuses during the forthcoming general election. Gambo, who was represented by the Chief Of Policy and Plans, Rear Adm. Sai’du Garba, gave the warning at the First Quarter Route March held at the Navy town in Abuja on Saturday. He also warned them to remain neutral, professional and apolitical while discharging their duties before, during and after the elections, adding that the service would not tolerate any act of indiscipline. “I wish to remind you all that the political activities in the country for the forthcoming general election have reached a climax hence, I urge you to maintain neutrality and be apolitical. “I enjoin you to be more professional in the conduct of your duties and day to day activities. “Furthermore, I encourage you not to engage in any act of misdemeanor or take laws into your hands that could bring the Service to disrepute in the course of your duty. “The Nigerian Navy will continue to support you by providing all you need to function optimally in the area of your responsibilities. “Additionally, I charge you all to show dedication to duty and unflinching support to our democracy and constituted authority,” he said. Gambo said that the Route March was organised earlier than scheduled, to prepare the personnel to be mentally and physically fit for the election mission. The CNS added that it was aimed at developing the physical and mental alertness of personnel to meet the dynamics of contemporary security operations, promote esprit de corps and as an avenue for relaxation. According to him, the primary responsibility of the navy is protecting the nation’s maritime domain and the Gulf of Guinea maritime security area. “The navy as a major participant in internal security duties all over the country, will continue to meet up its constitutional commitments in collaboration with other security agencies to improve national security. “It is pertinent to restate the fact that the Nigerian Navy remains a formidable partner in internal security operations across the country. “That is why fitness and mental alertness are among the critical elements of the CNS policy thrust.” The CNS eenjoined the personnel to keep the flag flying by diligently performing their duties while maintaining utmost regard to human rights. The naval chief also stressed the need to maintain cordial and improved relationship with civilians and relevant stakeholders. He said the Nigerian navy had just concluded Operation OBAGAME EXPRESS, held in partnership with regional and global maritime stakeholders on the security of Nigerian maritime domain, including the Gulf of Guinea. He added that the exercise was to build the capacity of personnel and awareness of the maritime domain of littoral states within the African continent. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) Edited by Benson Iziama/Maharazu Ahmed