By Abiodun Azi   A firm, Cranium Integrated Solutions Ltd, has  introduced a local- content health app designed to improve healthcare delivery in the country. Mr Kunle Adesida ,an engineer and co-founder of the firm ,who disclosed this in a statement on Friday , said that the app would help address the health needs of the people ,even up to the rural areas. According to him ,the use of the app ,especially in under-served areas ,will enable users to access healthcare at the firm’s many mobile clinics and other hospitals. “Even with the issue of low internet penetration at the digitally under-served areas, Cranium will deliver health care with its mobile clinics, running its Telecare module which is part of a full deployment of the app”,he said. He said the app was designed to suit local needs as it is 100 per cent customisable to the requirements of the country’s health facilities. Adesida added the health app was in a bid to help achieve Sustainable Development Goals through promotion of health and wellbeing . He noted that the adoption of digital health was low globally and that there was the need for proper sensitisation on its importance to healthcare delivery. Adesida said COVID-19 pandemic heightened the need for digitilisation of healthcare delivery. “The COVID-19 pandemic heightened the need for digitalization. Again, many people started seeing the need to go into this particular area, we have been in this area since 2005. ‘’It took us so many years to put this product together because we needed to ensure that we put in the real case scenarios architectural design for seamless medical, administrative and financial worldwide acceptable standards and that’s the good thing about local content. “Cranium has different levels of health facilities across Nigeria as clients and partners such as primary health care centres,  private hospitals, secondary and tertiary institutions running Cranium app,” he said. Adesida said that so much effort went into the development of the app to ensure the entire patient workflow in any hospital was covered with inputs of clinicians and other healthcare professionals . The co-founder said that with the app, a patient’s vitals could be monitored from the comfort of their homes using point- of -care testing devices and wearables, integrated to patient’s chart in the hospital. According  to him, Cranium is leveraging blockchain technology and Artificial Intelligence that enables patients access health care and data in any location or hospital they walk into. The co-founder emphasised  that there was need to talk to stakeholders and decision makers on digitilisation of hospitals , saying hospitals operating manual systems could go into extinction soon. He explained that digitization of hospital  processes using cranium app would also improve healthcare delivery as patient’s would have access to their personal health records which are confidential and protected. Adesida said that Cranium was compliant with the Nigeria Data Protection Regulations and also HL7 Standard, powered for medical informatics exchange between healthcare providers.(NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Nkiru Ifeajuna /Buhari Bolaji