By Kingsley Okoye Sen. Sabi Abdullahi, representing Niger-North Senatorial District, has urged citizens to vote Bola Tinubu, the APC Presidential Candidate, following his sterling performances and contributions to the country’s democracy. Abdullahi, also the Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate, made the call at an interactive session with newsmen in Abuja on Sunday. He said beyond Tinubu’s provision of quality infrastructure and other services, as Governor of Lagos State, he had been at the forefront, fighting for restoration of democracy in the country. He said the presidential candidate had stood against attempts to emasculate the political space. “He is a man who has a sense of accommodation, tolerance and he is somebody who believes that democracy is what we must promote for the common good. “Beyond what he has done while in power, you need to also look at what he has done outside power to ensure that the democratic space continue to be expanded. ”I think he has done tremendously well,” the senator said. He said that the late Royal Father of Borgu Kingdom had described and testified that Tinubu was a truthful man, bold and courageous in advancing his course when they both served in the Senate. Abdullahi said that Project 774, an APC support group, with members across the states of the federation and the FCT, was working to get people to understand what Tinubu’s candidacy was all about. “And what we said clearly here is, very simple, that this man has done it yesterday, he has shown capacity. “And so for us, we believe that should be our selling point about the candidate. “So I think the point to be made here is that leadership is not all about yourself, and our candidates have shown their understanding of leadership, not all about themselves. “But its all about the service to be rendered to the people and how that service is going to be sustained is also key. The senator dismissed insinuations that the presidential candidate was challenged in his health, saying that he was very healthy to pilot the affairs of Nigeria, when elected come Feb. 25. Abdullahi said that Tinubu had been campaigning actively round the country. He also said Tinubu was a man who had knack for identifying and giving opportunities to talents to serve in the interest of citizens. He assured that his senatorial district was fully for the APC candidates across board, saying that APC was fully on ground and would win in most states of the federation. “Politics is local, I just came back from Borgu where I went to canvass support at my own senatorial district, and it was a huge success. “I want to assure you that Niger North is for Jagaban Borgu/Kashim Shettima . “And they are going to win that senatorial district just like many other parts of this country.” “And we are campaning in the 36 States of the country, including FCT just as many other support groups out there in the field going to mobilise voters. “And APC has credible candidates all across, so I believe that places us at much more advantage position than any body, irrespective of whatever crisis that may arise artificially,” he said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) =========== Edited by Idris Abdulrahman