By Bridget Ikyado Lead Pastor of Good Tidings Bible Church International, Dayo Olutayo, says the country’s forthcoming elections will be the turning point for the nation. According to him, the success and choice of leaders will promote peace, unity and development of the country. Olutayo made this known at the Church’s National Day of Prayers to seek divine intervention in the affairs of the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Church invited all candidates for the 2023 general elections to the prayer day. The clergy said that the challenges the nation had faced would be wiped off as the church prays and the elections would be held successfully. He said success would be the portion of all contestants with the will of God at heart, and meeting the desires of the people. “Nigeria will witness a turnaround in all sectors. “All participants, voters and those to be voted for, security agencies will be safe during this period,” he said. He said that the prayer was to implore God’s help in preventing violence, manipulation, intimidation of voters and other electoral crimes in the forthcoming elections. “We consider this imperative in view of the fact that our nation is passing through very challenging times at the moment, despite its abundant natural, human, and material resources. “Nigeria is a vibrant and virile land that is full of colours, wealth and all that it will take to be one of the greatest nations on earth. “Sadly, the country has not yet reached where it should be at the moment due to some inherent problems,” he said. The pastor prayed God to use the programme to address the spiritual dimensions of the challenges plaguing the nation and frustrate every evil plan against the unity of the people. He told those vying for political office to bear in mind that they were signing a contract with the soul of Nigerians and God was their witness. He also warned politicians against inciting youths to fight, kill or destroy property. The clergy listed some points to note by the incoming leaders in the country. He said the subject history should not just be fully retired from schools curriculum but be made a compulsory subject for all students. He called for the enhancement of teachers salaries, and urged leaders to know that “the call to serve is from God, and there are repercussions to abuse any office”. “Elections are not a do or die affair, let all parties accept results and move on. “Let us all never stop praying for the nation and believing in it,” he said. The cleric said the “Japa” syndrome would reverse with all the wealth and knowledge that Nigerians would bring back to Nigeria from those nations. In his speech Mr Iheanyi Uzoma, the National Coordinator, Intercessors for Nigeria said the essence of the prayer was to reinforce the fact that this coming elections would be a turning point for Nigeria. He said Nigerians should believe, respect and trust God for a rebirth of a completely new Nigeria that would function in the principles of righteousness and justice. He urged the electorate to see the elections as a moment of destiny “that has come upon us”. “This is a time to take back our nation, vote in people who have capacity, who are credible and competent. “The elections has nothing to do with tribalism, religious persuasions and leaning,” he said. Also, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ugboaja, INEC’s Deputy Director, Voter Education and Publicity said the commission was ready for a smooth and fair elections. Ugboaja said information from security agencies too confirmed the readiness to secure life and property. “There is no doubt about the fact that INEC is ready for a hitch-free general elections. “The commission is going half-way in electronics with the use of BEVAS. “The mock demonstration of BEVAS had no failure. “INEC engineers designed the BEVAS and the engineers will be on ground everywhere to check, reconnect and replace any faulty machine. “Transmission of results at polling units level and transmitting to INEC report viewing portals are all heights of transparency INEC has adopted,” he said. Ugboaja commended the church for complementing all the plans with prayers and sensitisation of voters too.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) Edited by Grace Yussuf