By Dorcas Jonah Mr Mike Ejiofor, President, Alumni Association of the National Institute for Security Studies (AANISS), says the association is confident that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will deliver on credible elections, 2023. Ejiofor said at a news conference on Tuesday in Abuja, that in spite of series of attacks on INEC personnel and facilities, the commission would live up to expectations. He called on the public to support INEC, while urging the commission to be open to comments from Nigerians that would help in achieving its set objectives. The former director of Department of State Service (DSS) also urged INEC to do more to ensure that elections are won at the polls and not at the court, as a result of technicalities. According to him, in time like this in a nation’s life, when her essence and collective patrimony is being threatened by some political gladiators, it is appropriate that patriotic Nigerians and groups speak out. “This is with a view to assuaging frayed nerves and assisting our security agencies in bringing the situation under control, as a group of security professionals and major stakeholders in the Nigerian project. “We will not sit down, fold our hands and watch some politicians and undemocratic groups in their activities destroy our common patrimony. “Incidentally, today is Lovers’ Day, so let us continue to preach love for one another and our country Nigeria,’’ he said. Ejiofor said that the executive members of AANISS had studies the recent political and security climate in the country with regards to the electioneering campaigns and the upcoming general elections. According to him, the association condemns the unwholesome verbal and physical assaults by some political gladiators and their supports that have characterised the electioneering campaigns in recent times. “After 23 years of unbroken democracy, it is disheartening that some politicians approach campaigns and elections in such uncivilised and unpatriotic manner. “Security agencies as critical stakeholders should step up efforts by bringing such unpatriotic elements, whose activities have the tendencies to threaten the conduct of elections to book. “We commend agencies that have put their lives and those of their families’ members on the line in defence of our collective wellbeing. “We urge them to emplace more robust measures with a view to stemming this evil tide to avoid escalation,’’ he said. Ejiofor warned urged Nigerians against vote selling, adding that there were consequences for our choices. “As Nigerians, we can collect money and mortgage our future or vote our consciences for the good of our children and generations yet unborn,’’ he said. The former director of DSS said that the association supported the naira redesign policy of the Federal Government. He, therefore, urged the Central Bank of Nigeria to endeavour to make the new notes available to Nigerians to ameliorate the sufferings of the people.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)   ==== Edited by Isaac Aregbesola