TAJBank Limited, Nigeria’s fast-growing non-interest bank, has opened a new branch in Apapa, Lagos. TAJBank’s Managing Director, Mr Hamid Joda made this known in a statement on Monday. According to Joda, opening of the new branch is in furtherance of the bank’s current drive to provide seamless financial transactions and advisory services for its growing customer-base. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that TAJBank secured its national banking license from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in July, 2022. Joda said that it was part of the board and management’s initiatives to open new branches within the next few months across the six geo-political zones in the country. He said that Apapa was targeted for the commencement of the bank’s branch network expansion in the South West because of its strategic position in the nation’s business operations and the need to offer customers real-time, technology-powered world class services. “We are excited to begin the deepening of our non-interest and customer-focused products and services in Apapa, Lagos as we commence the expansion of our services across the country. “This is a mega branch based on the investments in technology and solutions, and the quality of human resource we are putting in place here. “We intend to put same in other branches we are opening very soon because we intend to offer what other banks are not offering in terms of value-addition to our customers. “With this move, we want to assure Nigerians that TAJBank’s only interest is our customers, and we shall continue to offer them products and services that surpass their expectations,” he said. The bank’s Executive Director, Mr Sherif Idi, recalled that the sterling performance of TAJBank was recognised in Nigeria and internationally. “The awards from Business Day and Leadership newspapers, and other global rating agencies to TAJBank in recognition of our world-class operational standards and service quality attest to this, ” he said. The Managing Director of IAL Nigeria Limited, Alhaji Ismail Adetola Lawal, commended the Board and management of TAJBank for opening the Apapa branch for the benefit of business owners and the Nigerian economy. “ I want to assure Nigerians that TAJBank will not disappoint them but surpass their expectations,” he said.(NAN)(www.portal.nannews.ng.nannews.ng) ===== Edited by Isaac Aregbesola