By Muhammad Nasir The Nigerian Army has restated commitment towards ensuring a conducive atmosphere for free and fair 2023 general elections in the country. The General Officer Commanding, 8 Division Nigeria Army, Maj.-Gen. Godwin Mutkut stated this at the 2022 end of the year West African Social Activities (WASA), on Sunday in Sokoto. He said the Division was suitably ready to support all relevant security agencies and authorities in shaping the environment to ensure the forthcoming general elections were conducted in a conducive atmosphere. “The 8 Division of the Nigeria Army will continue to be committed and more responsive in discharging its constitutional roles. “More so, we will not relent in fulfilling the assurance of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, to Nigerians in ensuring the 2023 general elections are free of military’s Intervention,” he said. The GOC further expressed gratitude with the performance of the officers and soldiers of the Division, saying they have done exceptionally well as evident in the current level of peace and security in the state. Mutkut said: “This is in line with the Chief of Army Staff’s vision, which is to have a professional Nigeria Army ready to accomplish assigned missions within a joint environment in defence of Nigeria”. He thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for his sustained support to the Nigeria Army, while appreciating the COAS for ensuring an enabling environment towards addressing security challenges in the country. Gov. Aminu Tambuwal also commended Buhari for his foresight toward sustainable peace and peaceful coexistence across the country. Represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Mainasara Ahmed, the governor restated his commitment to support security agencies to discharge their constitutional mandates of ensuring a peaceful environment for all. “The state government will continue to support all security agencies to succeed in our collective desire of defeating all criminal elements in the state,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that WASA is an annual social function inherited from the colonial era in the 2nd World War, during which indigenous Nigeria Army personnel celebrate their cultural heritage. The event brings officers, soldiers, family members and the communities together to display rich cultures and cuisines together. The event featured bonfire, dances and other forms of entertainment as well as the presenation of awards of excellence to troops who distinguished themselves in the outgone year. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Bashir Rabe Mani