By Rukayat Moisemhe A serial Entrepreneur, Seyi Tinubu, has reiterated his commitments to driving entrepreneurship and human capital development across the country. Tinubu, also a son of Sen. Bola Tinubu, Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), made the assertions at a popular reality TV show tagged: #TryMyJob with Olah on Tuesday in Lagos. Tinubu said that his passion for entrepreneurship, human capital development and skills acquisition was his driving force to youths empowerment and employment generation. He said that the show created by Olawunmi Akalusi had featured several celebrities, pointing out that by his appearance he has learnt the rudiments of tailoring and fashion business from Miss Chinedu Ahanonu. Tinubu, also the Chief Executive Officer, LOATSAD Promomedia, said that entrepreneurship was key to growing the nation’s economy. He urged Nigerian youths to appreciate the diversity of crafts, which according to him, contributes to solving the unemployment challenges in the country. “I commend my teacher today, Miss Chinedu Ahanonu, who left her day job, to train other women in the tailoring business. “Chinedu has trained over 500 women in the trade and her tenacity, patience and positive impact of her craft to the society deserves recommendation. “Apart from my passion for entrepreneurship, human capital development and skill acquisitions, I also enjoy my journey as a philanthropist. “Some of my projects and that of my organisation include the renovation of the seafood market in Victoria Island, Lagos, Noella Foundation project, which caters for the underprivileged in the society. “It has provided various forms of supports for them over the years, impacting the lives of thousands of people across Nigeria. “All these, by and large, impact the Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) space, encourage entrepreneurship and improve the standard of living,” Tinubu said. On “Try My Job” reality TV show, Akalusi said that the show aims to solve social justice issues, especially in the areas of unemployment in Nigeria and Africa through entertainment. She added that the show provided entrepreneurs a platform to showcase their products and services. “Influential people are made to swap jobs with blue-collar workers for a day and given the opportunity to share their experiences and give back to the society. “The show was launched in 2012 and has since featured famous people across all works of life and currently airs on OlahTv on YouTube,” she said.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========== Edited by Olagoke Olatoye