By Lucy Ogalue The Federal Government has urged the Chartered Institute for Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIOTA) to evolve measures that will transform and promote the country’s transport sector. Prince Ademola Adegoroye,  the Minister of State for Transportation,  made the call during the inauguration of the 2nd Governing Council of CIOTA in Abuja.  Adegoroye commended achievements of the institute, adding that it had supported the ministry in policy formulation, development of initiative and development of local capacity in the country. Prince Segun Obayendo, President, Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIOTA), emphasised the need for synergy between relevant stakeholders and the government to advance the country’s transportation sector. Obayendo said  the collaboration would bring about the positive change desired in the nation’s transport sector. Obayendo, Chairman of CIOTA’s Governing Council, said the council was the highest decision making body of the institute, charged with providing policy guidelines for effective administration of the institute. He said,  “ the implementation of these key responsibilities is germane, particularly as the institute strives to implement its laws and ensure professionalism and efficient management and administration of transportation in Nigeria. “ There is therefore, a greater need for synergy among the newly constituted governing board, relevant stakeholders and the government at all levels. He said such synergy would strengthen public engagements, advocacy initiatives and ensure implementation of policies for the mutual advancement of the transport sector. While commending the visionary founding fathers of the institute, Obayendo said the institute had made giant commendable strides since its inception. According to him, CIOTA has the onerous responsibility of advancing the study, training and regulating the practice of transport management and administration in Nigeria, regardless of the specialisation  within the industry. He said it also provided professional opinion to government on current and proposed transport policies, whether as a result of prepared legislation or custom and practice. The governing council chairperson pledged the commitment of members to work with well -meaning stakeholders to bequeath an institute that would take the transportation sector to greater heights. Dr Anthonia Ekpa, former Transport Director, Ministry of Transport, expressed her wiliness to support CIOTA in achieving its desired goals. Ekpa, a member of the World Road Safety Organisation, said she planned to introduce the organisation in Nigeria, and sought the collaboration of the institute to ensure this was realised. The Director-General, Nigeria Building and Road Research Institute, Prof. Sampson Duna, reiterated the need for collaboration among relevant stakeholders to ensure safe and cheap means of transportation for Nigerians. “We are ready to partner with any stakeholder in the transport sector and fund their projects that is geared towards advancing the sector,’’ Duna said. The Chairman, Membership and Planning Committee of the CIOTA, Prof. Odewumi Samuel, expressed optimism that the recently inaugurated council would develop measures that would help tackle most challenges faced in the sector. The Deputy President of CIOTA, Alhaji Umar Iya, said he had confidence that the committee would move the institute forward and drive its policies. Mrs Chinwe Uwaegbute, National Publicity Secretary of CIOTA, said the committee would as a matter of urgency, hit the ground running to ensure it delivered on its campaign promises. “You will recall that the president, during his campaign, made a lot of promises; what we are looking at is that at the end of this inauguration, we want to hit the ground running. “We are looking forward to a very realistic roadmap and how we can easily achieve them in the remaining space of months that we have for this tenure,’’ she said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Idris Abdulrahman