By Kingsley Okoye A House of Representatives candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) for Eti Osa Federal constituency, Lagos State, Femi Oladehin, has urged Nigerians to vote for credible candidates who can deliver results. Oladehin made the call in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja, ahead of Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections. “Nigerians should look beyond the narrative that politics is reserved for the dirty-minded, ” he said. The seasoned investment banker said he was running to deliver “purposeful representation” for the people of Eti Osa constituency. According to him, after years of failed promises, Eti Osa deserved a candidate who will focus on the constituency’s needs and attract increased federal presence. Oladehin said he joined politics to make the difference from the current crop of leaders in the country. “The more candidates who can impact the lives of the people stay away from politics, the worse it becomes with our current crop of leaders. “I threw my hat into the mix because I do not want to sit back quietly and let incompetent people ruin the country. “We keep saying politics is a dirty game, but the guy who makes a decision is a politician. You can build the best business in Nigeria, and a bad government policy can destroy that business overnight. “Politics is dirty, depending on how you play it. But we must change the narrative that says that politics is for dirty-minded people.” Oladehin stressed that his vision for the people was better than his opponents, and that he would work tirelessly to ensure that the government implemented policies that would benefit the people. He emphasised that he was the candidate to vote for if people wanted someone who would serve their interest and ensure real empowerment, rather than giving out money or JAMB forms for their kids without any real empowerment. “I have been in the private sector for 32 years, and I hope that people will say that I didn’t use the time to enrich myself undeservingly. I focus on results and try to make sure the results speak.” He added that his choice of running under the flag of the ADC was rooted in his preference for progressive politics. Oladehin noted that politics should be seen as the platform for making important decisions that affected people’s lives and businesses. “I have always had a thing for progressives, and I chose the ADC because it has not been tainted with corruption like the two major parties in Nigeria. “There is no way you’ll emerge from that process of those two parties without you being tainted by their dirty politics. “Eti Osa is regarded as a major economic corridor in Lagos and Nigeria. “So, my goal is to sponsor laws that increase federal presence in Eti Osa and improve the deployment of federal resources to the development of the constituency and protection of the interests of youths, women, and vulnerable members of society. “We must nurture and protect the digital economy to create jobs for our youths. “We must also develop Federal Government-funded technology hubs that will provide gainful opportunities for people. This is one of my focus areas for the Eti Osa federal constituency,” Oladehin said. According to him, politicians need to change the mentality that it is the turn of anybody to occupy leadership under democracy, and allow the best candidate to emerge and lay the foundation for a Nigeria which everybody will be proud of. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ============ Edited by Idris Abdulrahman