By Adeyemi Adeleye The Obasa Independent Campaign Group (OICG) on Friday said that the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly (LSHA), Mr Mudashiru Obasa, had surpassed expectations in performance, hence deserved reelection. The support team, working for his reelection, said he had, among other things, helped in the transformation of his Agege constituency into a “mini London” through development projects. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Obasa, representing Agege Constituency I in the Lagos Assembly, is running for the sixth term in the House. Speaking during a solidarity walk and road show for Obasa, Mr Azeez Yusuf, the Director General of the OICG said that people at the grassroots had seen the development the speaker had facilitated to Agege and its environs. Yusuf, a legal practitioner, said: “A lot has been done we cannot start mentioning. If we go into the streets in Agege and Papa Ashafa, a lot of development has taken place compared to what it was before. “Today, Agege is a mini London to us and the residents. I believe the people at the grassroots know the development that APC government has brought and they will vote for the party. “Obasa remains a messiah that God has given to the people of Agege because he has done a lot that we can see, empowered a lot of youths as well as market men and women,” Yusuf said. He said that the group was galvanizing support at the grassroots for Obasa and all other candidates of APC because of the gains in continuity. He said that only continuity at the local government and the state could expidite development everyone was yearning for. According to him, continuity in the state governance has made the state a model for others in all areas. Yusuf recounted that from administration of Sen. Bola Tinubu as governor of the state until the current administration of Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the state had shown leadership capacity. He said this was because subsequent administrations continued from where Tinubu stopped. “Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has shown capacity to the people of Lagos to be given another chance to continue what he has started. “It is also very good for the people of Agege Constituency I to return Rt.-Hon. Mudashiru Obasa to continue the developmental projects he has facilitated to the constituency which are numerous to count.” He urged people to vote for APC and remain resolute and calm, urging them to vote Tinubu as the next President. “There is going to be a difference with Tinubu at the helm of affairs of this nation. “Tinubu is a master planner, he is someone who knows the road. He is going to turnaround Nigeria and Lagos will benefit. “With the team he (Tinubu) would be assembling, there will be a difference in the condition of this country. Tinubu is the solution to Nigeria’s problems. He is a man everybody should follow. Also speaking, Mr Olumuyiwa Olumide, the Director of Media and Publicity for the group, described Obasa as a revered leader and outstanding legislator who had exceeded expectations. “The developmental strides we have seen in Agege through the activities, influence and efforts of Rt-Hon. Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa motivate us to do this and this is the least we can do for him,” he said. He said that the group was formed to complement efforts of the party in the campaign for the re-election of the speaker and other APC candidates. On the number of votes the group intended to mobilise for Obasa, the spokesman said:”From what we have done so far at the grassroots, our projection is 100,000 votes for Obasa in the forthcoming elections. NAN reports that the group led scores of its supporters on a road walk from Obasa Campaign Office to all the major roads in the constituency. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Oluwole Sogunle