By Segun Giwa The presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Sen. Rabiu Kwankwaso, has solicited the support of Atunluse Initiatives, a Yoruba socio-cultural and political group, ahead of Saturday’s presidential election. This is contained in a statement by the Coordinator of the Atulunse Initiatives, Mr Shalom Olaseni, on Thursday in Akure. Olaseni said that the NNPP presidential candidate made the plea when the Kwankwaso Inter State Election Committee for Ondo visited the secretariat of the Atulunse Initiatives in Akure, Ondo. He said the group was very much on ground with members across the communities, villages and towns in Ondo state based on the operational structure of that can be activated within 24 hours. “NNPP appears not to be leaving any stone unturned in ensuring it wins the 2023 Presidential Election as it seeks Atunluse Onitiatives support,” he said. Olaseni said that Kwankwaso was represented at the meeting by the former House of Representatives member from Kano, Ibrahim Yakubu. He quoted him as saying that the NNPP ideology was in tandem with what Atunluse represents. “The party will be glad to work with the organisation because of what they stand for. “Therefore, we want Atunluse to join hands with Sen. Rabiu Kwankwaso to rescue Nigeria from the shackles of bad and very wicked governance,” he said. The former member of the National Assembly narrated to the leaders of the organisation what Kwankwaso was able to achieve as a former governor, a federal minister and as a senator. He said: “People that are following Kwankwaso are not doing it because of money, but they are following him because they believe in him and his ideology. “Supporting Rabiu Kwankwaso to become president is a support to lift the poor masses from abject poverty.” Dr Umaru Dakwa, a member of the delegation, added that Kwankwaso share same ideology with Atunluse, saying he has the best programme for the masses among all the presidential candidates. According to him, Atunluse is an organisation with diverse membership and this is the kind of people that we will like to work with. The Chairman of Atunluse Initiatives, Otunba Akinsola Akinbobola, while reacting said both the Atunluse and NNPP were relative in terms of ideology. Akinbobola reiterated that the organisation would only work with a mass oriented political party. “If you recognise us, we will recognise you, since you have come here, we will get back to you after our emergency state exco meeting with the members of the organisation. “Atunluse has the mandate to advocate for better life for Nigerians irrespective of where they come from,” Olaseni quoted Akinbobola as saying. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ============= Edited by Chinyere Joel-Nwokeoma