By Abigael Joshua Prof. Oba Abdulraheem, the Kwara’s New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) governorship candidate, has promised to embark on realistic, dynamic political and economic reforms if voted into power. Oba, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said he would create a governable environment that promotes and supports socio-economic well-being of the people through his Strategic Actions to Change Kwara (SACK) strategy. “We want a Kwara State that works for all, propped by a determined focus on shared prosperity for all, driven by a vibrant economy and underpinned by quality service based on equity and justice. “The ultimate goal of Government and Governance is the welfare and security of the people,” the governorship candidate said. He said his government would pursue vigorous value-orientation to minimise corrupt practices, reduce and, ultimately, eliminate waste and leakages in public financing. Explaining his education agenda, Oba who was a former Vice Chancellor of the University of Ilorin, said there would be a deliberate focus on educational infrastructural renewal, arresting and reversing the decay at the basic education level. He added that there would be unhindered access to free, qualitative basic education for all in Kwara. “There will be drastic reduction in out-of-school children population; progressive decongestion and expansion of instructional space and facilities, promoting ICT and e-learning. “I will embark on capacity-building through re-conceptualizing the teacher training education in order to match the goals of the Universal Basic Education. “There will be improved conditions/incentives for trainee teachers, restoration of rural posting and incentives for basic education teachers,” he said. Oba said the professional focus of the colleges of Education and polytechnics would remain sacrosanct, while there there would be enhanced conditions of service, including career opportunities for trained teachers. According to the NNPP governorship candidate, education is a change-agent which will be deployed as the flagship of his party’s change agenda. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ======== Edited by Razak Owolabi