Mr Lanre Gbajabiamila, the Director-General, National Lottery Regulatory Commission  By Okon Okon The Federal Government in collaborate with the National Lottery Nigeria, and a private company on Tuesday in Abuja inspected facilities in readiness for official inauguration of Nigeria’s National Game. Mr Lanre Gbajabiamila, the Director-General, National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), after the inspection, expressed satisfaction over the facilities on ground, saying “they are impressive”. Gbajabiamila said that the standard had been set for the operations of lottery gaming in the country. “These are the kinds of the setup that we see when we go on a visit abroad and I just hope they are going to maintain them because the facilities are very impressive and I am glad with what I have seen so far.” He said Nigerians would benefit immensely from the game when officially launched as it would create more employment for Nigerians. On addictive gambling by the juvenile in lottery operations in Nigeria, the D-G assured that the facilities would also serve as tools to checkmate the excessive involvement of the underaged being a digital online operation. “I believe in the terms and conditions that NLRC takes on responsible gaming and underaged gaming and other concerns on addiction of gaming, I believe the company knows what to do as I earlier discussed with them. “The fact that it is digital online operation, it will be easy for them tactically to identify those players who are becoming addictive in gaming. “ According to him, the model of operation will be different from every other games as it will add values to the national sports and economic development of the country. Responding, Mr Layi Onafowokan, the Managing Director of National Lottery Nigeria, expressed delights over Gbajabiamila’s visit to inspect the facilities in readiness for the official inauguration of the game in Nigeria. “His visit is to inspect our facilities in readiness in terms of going live on the operations of the national games and I am happy that he is pleased with what he met on ground. “This shows our commitment into delivery on these national games to Nigerians. As you can see, our facilities, studio and everything is ready and that is the reason for his visit here today.” According to Onafowokan, the games, which involve instant games, mega-naija-jackpot and other games to be unveiled on the official launching day, is looking at not just the regional level but also at the national level. He said it also would help to alleviate a lot of tough times faced by many Nigerians. “This is a mere facts that we come up with these national games to change people`s lives and we will bring that credibility to Nigerians who believe in us that we are here to change lives of Nigerians. “What we are doing here today will be to the economic benefits of our country, to our community in general,” he said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Grace Yussuf