Gregory Mmaduakolam Mrs Chinyere Uromta on Thursday took over as the Acting Registrar of the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN) from the former registrar, Mr Samuel Nwakoha. This is contained in a statement signed by Alhaji Muftahu Ya’u, Chairman, Committee on Media and Publicity of the CRFFN on Thursday, in Abuja. Uromta, speaking at the hand-over ceremony gave assurance that her leadership thrust would be transparent and enhance collaboration between the organisation and freight forwarders. According to her, the Council will continue to prioritise training of freight forwarders to ensure they are at par with their counterparts in other parts of the world. This, she said, would enhance professionalism and greater revenue generation for the country. “We shall cut through the fog of mistrust and resort to intensive dialogue and reconciliation with all concerned parties including members of staff and the freight forwarders. “We will endeavour to make wise choices and works transparently, flexibly and honestly as we take cognisance of the fact that members of staff are the Primary key to the actualisation of the Council’s success. “Hence, we solicit for their cooperation in the bid to speedily reposition the council and the industry at large, bearing in mind that if we work together as one unit we would attain the desired progress. “We shall be there as the management to guide and supervise our staff and other stakeholders’’, she said. Uromta equally appreciated the CRFFN’S Governing Council under the leadership of the Chairman, Dr Abubakar Tsanni, who she described as an indefatigable leader that had guided the Council on a path of Progress and notable accomplishments. She also expressed gratitude to the Minister of Transportation, Mr Mu,azu Jaji Sambo and the Permanent Secretary to the Ministry , Dr Magdalene Ajani , for prioritising  the ideals  of the Council over the years. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)  reports that prior to her appointment as the acting registrar, Uromta had been the Director, Regulation and Enforcement and had earlier served as the Director, Corporate Affairs at the Agency. Earlier, the Chairman, Media Committee on the CRFFN Governing Council conveyed the commendation of the Governing Chairman on the emergence of Uromta as acting registrar. “This event is for handing over the administrative affairs of CRFFN from the outgoing registrar, Nwakohu, whose tenure expired on Jan.31.He handed over to the most senior management staff of the Council which is Uromta,’’ Ya’u said. Ya’u noted that the committees was set up by the governing council to oversee the handover process to ensure that there was no vacuum in leadership at the organization, following expiration of the former registrar’s tenure. The delegation which presided over the handover ceremony, was led by Mrs Oyerinde , while other members were Dr Kayode Farinto, Alhaji Moshood Tijani , Mr Tochukwu Esizi and the committee’s Secretary, Ya,u .(NAN) www.nannews.ng   ======= Edited by Isaac Aregbesola