By Ikenna Osuoha Save Our Heritage Initiative (SOHI), an Abuja-based NGO, has urged Nigerians to exercise patience, hope and peace, in the face of difficulties. Ms May Ikokwu, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), SOHI, made the call on Monday in Abuja during an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in commemoration of World Social Justice Day. Ikokwu said though the country was passing through difficult times, including the hiccups created by the naira re-design and cashless policy, the citizenry should be hopeful for a better future. She said that peace, hope and patience were paramount to realising the social contract between the people and government. Ikokwu who spoke on the theme: “Overcoming Barriers and Unleashing Opportunities for Social Justice”, said only social justice would engender renewed trust on government. She urged the Nigerians not to despair but to continue to renew their faith in the government. Ikokwu, however, advised government to create an equitable and fair society that would guarantee prosperity to all irrespective of race, ethnicity or religion. “Social justice makes societies and economies function better and reduces poverty, inequalities and social tensions. “In a society where social justice is tenable, there is fairness, security, hope, prosperity and patriotism which are essential to humanity,” she said. The social justice advocate described social justice as a very important tenet of peaceful and prosperous nation aimed at attaining more inclusive and sustainable socio-economic development paths. She said social justice is important in attaining Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), especially at a time when the achievement of those goals seems difficult. According to her, this year’s theme of “Our Common Agenda” aims to strengthen global solidarity and to re-build trust in governments. Ikokwu expressed the imperatives of shared values and goals aimed at identifying the means to respond to people`s aspirations and needs. She said social justice is one of the cornerstones of the renewed multilateralism required for a more efficient global system. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Feb.20 is set aside annually to commemorate World Social Justice Day. (NAN) www.nannews.ng Edited by Ayodeji Alabi/Uche Anunne