By Mercy Obojeghren The Delta office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it has received sensitive and non-sensitive materials for the Feb. 25, presidential and National Assembly election. Rev. Monday Udoh-Tom, the state’s INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) said this when he addressed representatives of political parties at the premises of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), in Asaba on Thursday. “We are here to inspect the sensitive and non-sensitive materials from our headquarters in Abuja for the presidential and National Assembly elections on Feb. 25. “We are also here to ascertain if the materials on ground matches with what we have in our check list as well as allow representatives of the various political parties to inspect the materials and they have done that. “We already have the materials for the presidential and the senatorial election, but we observed that the ones for House or Representative are not available. We will notify our headquarters about that,” he said. The REC urged political parties to sensitise the electorate on the need to come out and cast their vote during the elections. Udoh-Tom also urged them to ensure that they work toward violence free election. Also, the State Chairman of the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), Mr Emeka Bidokwu confirmed that the materials were intact. “All the political parties are represented here and we have seen the materials. “We have the materials for the presidential and that of the senatorial election, but that of house of representative are not available for now. But INEC has promised us that before the end of the week, they will be available,” he said. In his remarks, the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Ari Ali assured of adequate security before, during and after the elections. The commissioner, represented by ASP Sa’ad Ibrahim, said the police was ready for the elections. ”We assure the general public that the police is very much ready for a peaceful and credible election come Feb. 25, 2023. (NAN) www.nannews.ng Edited by Ifeyinwa Okonkwo/Ali Baba-Inuwa