By Chidinma Ewunonu-Aluko The Bishop of Ibadan Anglican Diocese, Most Rev. Joseph Akinfenwa, on Monday urged the Church and Nigerians to keep their peace and not to lose hope at the approach of the 2023 elections. Akinfenwa gave the advice in his pastoral message to the Church and to country in Ibadan where he noted that the past few weeks had been quite traumatic for most Nigerians. He blamed the trauma on fuel and cash scarcity. “In several places nationwide, the frustration has boiled over, and outbreaks of violence have been the consequence. “As we approach general elections, however, we hereby appeal to all Nigerians to please remain calm in the face of all provocations. “As a people, we have been through a lot in times past, and we have always proven ourselves to be a very resilient people. Time has come for us to demonstrate that resilience once again. “Let us encourage one another to eschew violence, to keep the peace, and to resist every machination or manipulation to incite upheaval so that the general elections would not hold. “In the face of widespread deprivation of cash, let us resort to our native communality and generosity; and at least for these few days let us re-enact Acts 2:44-47 and Acts 4:32,’’ he stated. Acts 2:44-47 states: 44 And all that believed were together, and had all things common; 45 And sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man had need. 46 And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart. 47 Praising God and having favour with all the people. And the Lord added to the Church daily such as should be saved. Acts 4:32 states: All the believers were one in heart and mind. No one claimed that any of their possessions was their own, but they shared everything they had. “Let us share with one another out of the little that we have, and ensure that extreme hunger and or frustration does not tip our neighbours over,’’ Akinfenwa added. He advised that rather than allowing on-going adversity to incite us against one another, Nigerians should bond together in love across ethnic and religious boundaries, focusing on supporting one another to overcome the adversity. The Ibadan Anglican Bishop recalled periods in Nigeria’s history when agents of evil exploited Nigerians vulnerability to set them against one another, to set back the nation, and to truncate the will of the people. “Do not let us allow them this time around. As a people, let us unite to say no to provocation and incitement, and to insist on peaceful change and democratic transition according to civilised norms. “On account of this, let us by all means remain peaceful and law-abiding, while trusting that government shall keep faith with the election timetable. “When we go to the polls on Feb. 25 and March 11, let us vote according to the dictates of our conscience, and in tandem with our collective desire for a better Nigeria. “This time, it is extremely imperative that our votes should agree with our hopes. May the Lord grant Nigerians the wisdom and courage to do the right thing this time. “Once again, we identify with all good people of God in the Church, and with all Nigerians as we go through these trying times. We know that indeed, the pains are much and the burden is heavy. “However, let us be assured that if we endure and do what is right, this too shall pass; and this painful process shall give birth to a better nation for us all,’’ Akinfenwa stressed. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)   Edited by Alli Hakeem